No.17
Department of International Cooperation Ministry of Science and Technology(MOST), P.R.China
(cid:52)(cid:70)(cid:81)(cid:85)(cid:70)(cid:78)(cid:67)(cid:70)(cid:83)(cid:15)(cid:18)(cid:22)(cid:1)(cid:19)(cid:17)(cid:18)(cid:24)
Next Generation Artifi cial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
SSppoonnssoorr:: DDeeppaarrttmmeenntt ooff IInntteerrnnaattiioonnaall CCooooppeerraattiioonn,,MMiinniissttrryy ooff SScciieennccee aanndd
TTeecchhnnoollooggyy((MMOOSSTT)),, PP..RR..CChhiinnaa
OOrrggaanniizzeerr:: CChhiinnaa AAssssoocciiaattiioonn ffoorr IInntteerrnnaattiioonnaall SScciieennccee aanndd TTeecchhnnoollooggyy CCooooppeerraattiioonn
ccaaiissttcc@@112266..ccoomm
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
Over 60 years of progress has witnessed booming of new theories and new technologies including
mobile Internet, big data, super computing, sensor network and brain science. Driven both by the new
theories and technologies and strong demand for socioeconomic development, artifi cial intelligence (AI) has
developed rapidly. A set of new features such as deep learning, cross-border integration, human-computer
cooperation, group intelligence sharing and free manoeuvre have emerged. The general advancement of
AI-related disciplines, theoretical modeling, technological innovation and software and hardware update
is triggering a chain of breakthroughs, boosting transformation from digitization and Internetization to
intelligentization in all aspects of social and economic sphere. In light of new circumstances and demands,
we need to take proactive approaches to meet changes, seize the historical opportunity of AI development
and take stock of the current situation and make proactive plans to serve socioeconomic development
and national security and to lead leapfrog advancement of national competitiveness. To this end, the State
Council has issued Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan. This is a major event in the
history of science and technology (S&T) advancement in China and the fi rst systemic and strategic plan in
AI sphere. It mainly plans for the overall thinking, strategic goals, main tasks and supporting measures for AI
development before 2030.
Next Generation Artifi cial Intelligence
Development Plan
Introduction
Artificial intelligence (AI) has become new focus of
international economy, new engine of economic development and
new opportunity of social development. To seize the major strategic
opportunity brought by AI development, build up our AI fi rst mover
advantage and speed up building innovation-driven and globally
advanced science and technology country, we formulated this plan
according to deployment requirements of the Central Government
and the State Council.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
As a core driving force for next round of industrial transformation, artifi cial intelligence will further release
the huge energy accumulated over the previous technological and industrial transformation, create new
engine for restructuring production, distribution, exchanges and consumption, build up new demand for
intelligentization in both macro and micro sense, create new technology, products, industries, dynamics and
models, trigger major transformation of economic structure, deeply alter human life and thinking and realize
advancement of social productivity.
Artificial intelligence (AI) brings new opportunities for social development. China is now at a critical
juncture of building a relatively well-off society in an all-round way while it is facing severe challenges
like aging population and resource and environment restraint. AI boasts broad applications in education,
medical care, provision for the aged, environmental protection, urban operation and judicial service, which
will markedly improve targeted public service and people’s livelihood. AI technology is able to accurately
perceive, predict and offer early warning for major circumstances in infrastructure and social security, timely
seize group cognition and psychological changes so that proactive measures are taken to improve social
management capacity, which plays an irreplaceable role in stabilizing the society.
Basic principles
Lead by Science Systemic Open Source
Drive by Market
and Technology Layout and Openness
China boasts sound foundation for developing AI. The Chinese government has planned for major
national R&D projects including AI projects. It has issued a three-year implementation plan for Internet+
AI, putting forward a series of measures for technology R&D, application and industrial development. After
years of efforts, we have made major progress in AI area, ranking the second in the number of published
technology papers and patents and making important breakthroughs in the core technology of some areas.
We lead the world in voice and visual recognition, have capacity for rapid development in adaptive self-
learning, intuitive awareness, comprehensive reasoning, hybrid intelligence and group intelligence and have
entered practical application of Chinese information processing, intelligence monitoring, biometric recognition,
industrial robots, service robots and unmanned driving. AI innovation and entrepreneurship are growing
rapidly with a group of leading businesses gaining wide international awareness and recognition. Growing
technological capacity, massive data resource, huge application demand and open market environment have
created a unique advantage for China to develop AI.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
Strategic Goals
Step 1 By 2020 overall AI technology and application reach
globally advanced level. AI industry becomes new economic
growth point. AI technological application becomes new
approach to improving people’s livelihood to support our
goal in becoming an innovation-driven country and building a
moderately prosperous society in all respects.
Step 2 By 2025 AI basic theory makes breakthroughs. AI
technology and application reach globally advanced level.
AI becomes a major driving force for industrial upgrade and
economic restructuring. Building an intelligence society
makes progress.
Step 3 By 2030 AI theory, technology and application
reach globally advanced level. China becomes global AI
innovation center. Intelligence economy and society make
marked progress, laying a solid foundation for becoming an
innovation-driven and economically powerful country.
Uncertainty in AI development brings new challenges. AI is a revolutionary and widely influential
technology which may bring about issues like changing employment structure, impacting law and social
ethnics, infringing personal privacy and challenging international relations. It will deeply infl uence government
management, economic security, social stability and global governance. While robustly developing AI, we
must highlight the potential safety risks, enhance early prevention and guidance, reduce risks to a maximum
degree and ensure the safe, reliable and manageable development of AI.
Major Task
Set up a system Stick to Three in One
Open and coordinated AI science R&D, product application and
and technology innovation system industrial cultivation
Seize double nature Enhance Four Supports
Highly integrate technical nature Support technology, economy, social
and social nature development and national security
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
We must take into account the overall situation of national development, grasp global AI development
trend, find the breaking point and priority, enhance basic capacity for technological innovation, expand
the depth and scope for application of major areas and improve intelligence level of social and economic
development and national defense application.
1. Set up open and coordinated AI science and
technology innovation system
Set up basic theory system of next generation AI
(1) big data intelligence theory
(2) cross-media perceptual computing theory
(3) hybrid augmented intelligence theory
(4) group intelligence basic theory
(5) coordinated control and decision-making theory
(6) advanced machine learning theory
(7) brain-like intelligence computing theory
(8) quantum intelligence computing theory
Set up next generation key AI generic technology system
(1) knowledge computing engine and knowledge service technology
(2) cross-media analytic reasoning technology
(3) key group intelligence technology
(4) new structure and new technology of hybrid augmented intelligence
(5) autonomous man-less system technology
(6) virtual reality intelligence modeling technology
(7) intelligence computing chip and system
(8) natural language processing technology
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
Coordinate the set-up of AI innovation platform
(1) basic platform for AI open source software and hardware
(2) group intelligence service platform
(3) hybrid augmented intelligence support platform
(4) independent man-less system support platform
(5) AI basic data and safety assessment platform
Accelerate the cultivation of high-level AI talents
(1) cultivate high-level AI innovation talents and team
(2) Make more efforts to bring in high-level AI talents
(3) Set up AI discipline
2. Cultivate high-end and highly effi cient
intelligent economy
Vigorously develop AI emerging industry
Intelligent software and hardware, intelligent robot, intelligent
launch vehicle, virtual reality and augmented reality, intelligent terminal,
Internet of Things basic device.
Accelerate industrial intelligent upgrading
Intelligent manufacturing, intelligent agriculture, intelligent logistics,
intelligent fi nance, intelligent business, intelligent house.
Vigorously develop AI enterprise
Promote large-scale intelligent upgrading of business, promote
AI application factory and cultivate speedily leading businesses of AI
industry.
Set up AI innovation highland
Carry out demonstration for AI application, build national AI
industrial park and national maker space for AI.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
3. Build safe and convenient intelligent society
Develop convenient and effi cient intelligent service
Intelligent education, intelligent medical care, intelligent health and aged care.
Promote intelligent social governance
Intelligent business, intelligent court, intelligent city, intelligent transportation,
intelligent environmental protection.
Use AI to improve capacity to protect public security
Promote mutual trust and sharing in society
4. Enhance AI civil-military integration
Deploy next generation AI basic theory and key generic
technology R&D oriented toward civil-military sharing, set
up regular communication and coordination mechanism like
higher education and research institutions, companies and
military institutes.
5. Build safe and effi cient AI infrastructure system
Upgrade network infrastructure, coordinate and use big
data infrastructure, build effi cient computing infrastructure
and distributed and effi cient energy Internet.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
6. Make forward-looking plans for major science and
technology programs of next generation AI
“1+N”AI program group with major S&T
programs of next generation AI as the core and
supported by existing R&D.
refers to major S&T programs of next
generation AI
refers to major national special S&T
programs, S&T innovation 2030 and National
Key R&D program
“1” refers to major technology projects of next generation AI. It focuses on basic theory and forward-
thinking planning of key generic technology, including research on theories related to big data intelligence,
cross-media perceptual computing, hybrid augmented intelligence, group intelligence, coordinated control
and decision-making. And it focuses on studying knowledge computing engine and knowledge service
technology, cross-media analytic reasoning technology, key group intelligence technology, new structure and
new technology of hybrid augmented intelligence, autonomous control technology, basic theory and generic
technology of open-sourced AI sharing. We continuously predict and analyze AI development and study the
socioeconomic infl uence and solutions provided by strengthening AI.
“N” refers to AI R&D projects deployed by related national plans. Its focus is to enhance its link with
major technology project of next generation AI and to coordinate theory research, technology breakthrough
and product research application of AI. In terms of its link with major national special projects of technology,
it supports software and hardware of AI development in the special projects in core electronic devices, high-
end universal chips, basic software and integrated circuit equipment. It enhances its mutual support with
other “technology innovation 2030--major projects”, speeds up research on brain science and brain-like
computing, quantum information and quantum computing, intelligent manufacturing and robots and big data,
providing support for technological breakthroughs in AI. National key R&D Projects continue to promote major
special projects like high-performance computing and provide more support for related technological R&D
and application of AI. National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) provides continuous support for
cutting-edge interdisciplinary research and free exploration. In the deployment of major projects like deep
underwater space station and health security and national key R&D plan for major special projects, we will
enhance application demonstration of AI technology. Other AI related basic theory and generic technology
research fi ndings supported by various technology plans should be shared openly.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
Resource distribution
Fully capitalize on existing resources like capital and
base, holistically allocate domestic and international innovation
resource, prioritize the set-up of AI innovation base, give
play to the guiding role played by fiscal revenue and policy
incentives and dominant role played by market to distribute
resource, build a new pattern supported by fi scal, fi nancial and
social capital.
Supporting measures
1. Formulate laws and regulations and ethical norms
related to AI development.
2. Improve major policies for AI development.
3. Set up AI technology standard and intellectual
property system.
4. Set up AI safety regulation and assessment
system.
5. Enhance AI labor force training.
6. Carry out extensive activities to
popularize AI.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
1. Formulate laws and regulations and ethical norms related to promoting AI
development.
We need to carry out research on legal issues of AI application-related civil and criminal liability
confi rmation, privacy and intellectual property protection and safe use of information, set up traceability and
accountability system and identify AI legal entity and related rights, obligations and responsibilities. We will
carry out AI behavior science and ethics research, set up multilevel assessment structure for ethics and
morals and ethic framework for human-machine coordination, formulate moral standard and behavior code
for AI product research designers, enhance assessment for potential AI risks and benefits and build up
emergency solutions for complicated AI scenarios, participate in AI global governance, strengthen research
into major international common problems like robot alienation and safety regulation, further international
cooperation in AI laws and regulations and international rules and jointly meet global challenges.
2. Improve major policies for AI development.
We need to put in place fi nancial and tax preferential policies for small and medium sized and start-up
enterprises, support AI business development by policies like tax breaks for hi-tech business and weighted
deduction for R&D, improve data sharing and protection policies, carry out pilot program for public statistics
sharing, support general public and business to fully capitalize on the commercial value of public data,
promote innovative AI application, improve policy system that is adjusted to AI-related education, medical
care, insurance and social assistance and effectively handle social issues brought by AI.
3. Set up AI technology standard and intellectual property system.
We need to enhance research into AI standard framework, stick to principles of safety, usability,
interoperability and traceability, progressively set up and improve AI generics, connectivity, industrial
application, network safety and privacy protection standards, encourage AI business to participate in or
formulate international standards, lead overseas AI products and service application with technological
standard, enhance IPR protection in AI area, set up AI public patent pool and promote the use and
dissemination of AI.
4. Set up AI safety regulation and assessment system.
We need to enhance research and assessment of AI infl uence on national security and confi dentiality,
improve safety prevention and protection system featuring human, technology, product and management,
build up warning mechanism for AI safety monitoring, enhance research into prediction, assessment and
trace of AI technology development, stick to problem-oriented approach and grasp technological and
industrial development trend, pay attention to risk assessment and prevention, strengthen forward-thinking
prevention and guidance, set up open and transparent AI monitoring system, carry out two-level monitoring
structure with accountability and monitoring for application, promote AI industrial and business discipline,
enhance management and punish data abuse, privacy infringement and unethical behavior.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
5. Enhance AI labor force training.
We need to speed up research into employment structure and mode change brought by AI and new type
of employment and work skills required, set up lifelong learning and employment training system demanded
by intelligence economy and society, support higher education institutions, vocational schools and social
training institutions to carry out AI skills training, dramatically improve employees’ skill set to meet demands
of highly-skilled and high quality work brought by AI.
6. Carry out extensive activities to popularize AI.
We need to support various forms of activities to popularize AI, encourage science and technology
workers to popularize AI, improve general public’s awareness and application of AI, carry out AI education
programs, set up AI-related courses in elementary and middle schools, disseminate progressively
programming education, encourage social force to participate in developing and disseminating educational
programming software, open AI R&D platform, production facilities or exhibitions to the general public,
encourage AI competition, encourage various forms of creation to popularize AI and encourage scientists to
take part in popularizing AI.
Organization and implementation
1.Organization and leadership
According to the deployment of the Central Government and
the State Council and coordinated by Steering Group for National
Science and Technology System Reform and Innovation System
Building, we examine and deliberate on major tasks, policies, issues
and work arrangement, promote AI-related laws and regulations,
guide, coordinate and supervise related departments to make
related plans. Supported by Inter-ministerial Joint Conference on
National Science and Technology Program (special program and
fund etc.) Management, Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST)
and related departments will carry out major science and technology
programs of next generation AI, enhance its link with other plans
and tasks, set up AI Plan Promotion Office in MOST to facilitate
the implementation, set up AI Strategy Consultancy Committee to
study forward-looking and strategic issues and assess major AI
policies, facilitate AI think tank building, support various think tanks
to study major AI issues and provide strong intellectual support for AI
development.
Next Generation Artificial Intelligence Development Plan
Issued by State Council
2.Guarantee of implementation
We need to disintegrate plans and tasks, clarify responsible
departments and work schedule, formulate annual and periodical
implementation plan and enhance dynamic adjustment of plans and
programs.
3.Pilot Demonstration
We need to disintegrate plans and tasks, clarify responsible
departments and work schedule, formulate annual and periodical
implementation plan and enhance dynamic adjustment of plans and
programs.
4.Public Opinion Guidance
We need to fully capitalize on various traditional and emerging
media, timely publicize AI progress and achievement, make sound
AI development a social consensus, mobilize social initiative to
participate in and support AI development and timely guide public
opinion to meet social, ethical and legal challenges brought by AI
development.
(Source: website of the State Council, July 20, 2017)
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
The previous 5 years has witnessed the Chinese
people making great endeavors under the leadership
of the Communist Party of China for STI miracles. All
this was achieved by China’s strengths.
For the past 5 years, China has achieved all-around scientific
and technological breakthroughs, standing on the summit of cutting-
edge technologies. For the past 5 years, China has transformed from
relying on resource and labor force dividend to “Lead by Innovation”
mode, becoming increasingly important in global innovation pattern.
China’s Stregnths: “5 Golden Years”
Creates Innovation Miracles
China, the largest developing country in the world, places great
emphasis on science and technology innovation, sounding the horn of
building a global science and technology power.
Over the past year alone, “transcript” of innovation in China is
great enough for national pride and global applause:
The first independently-manufactured aircraft carrier
makes its debut
New type 10,000-ton destroyer enters the water
First self-developed bullet train Fuxing makes its debut
Quantum Space Satellite Mozi shines in outer space
Extracted combustible ice for 60 days, setting two
world records of longest extract time and largest gas
volume.
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
2017 World Competitiveness Yearbook
Report shows: published by Swiss-based International
Institute for Management Development
In ranking of the most competitive global economies, Chinese
mainland has elevated to No.18 and ranked the 2nd in global Economic
Performance.
The past 5 years has witnessed historical leap in China’s dream
to “Overtake the World” and become a powerhouse:
Mileage of high-speed trains in China exceeded 20,000
km, the longest in the world.
China has made increasing breakthroughs in cutting-
edge areas with S&T achievement that caught the world’s
attention.
The number of Fortune Global 500 Chinese companies
has been increasing. China’s international competitiveness
has ranked among the top of all developing countries.
Report shows:
Global Innovation Index 2017 Report
China has climbed from No.25 last year to No.22 this year and
was the only medium income country that entered top 25.
China power: independent innovation reshapes
world science and technology pattern
How far is 380,000 km? On 14th December 2013, Yutu lunar
rover left its footprint on the moon with Chinese fl ag.
From high-speed rail From space flight
to super computing to aviation
Core technology cannot be bought. Only by innovation can we
master our own fate.
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
Why is China’s innovation rise possible?
Talents breed the soil for innovation and are our inexhaustible rich ore.
170 million
81 million science workers highly educated or skilled talents
Sustainable input is like flowing water, irrigating prosperous
China’s Innovation Era.
In 2016 the national technical contract transaction volume
increased by 15.97%
year on year, exceedin g o n e t r i l l i o n y u a n for the fi rst time.
national technical contract transaction volume
The national R&D expenditure reached 1 , 5 4 4 b i l l i o n y u a n ,
accounting for 2 . 1 % of GDP, among which 7 8 % came from
businesses.
National Science Foundation (NSF) says
“China is undoubtedly the 2nd largest R&D country in the world.
China’s R&D expenditure is approaching that of the whole EU.”
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
Good policy is like sunshine. Furthered S&T reform solves
innovation formula.
To consolidate national core competitiveness, important
plans like National Guideline for Innovation-Driven
Development Strategy and National Science and Technology
Innovation Plan for 13th Five-Year Plan Period have been
issued to enhance S&T supply, consolidate its foundation,
boost strategy orientation, deepen innovation reform and
clarify positioning of S&T innovation.
Streamline administration and increase innovation and
business, carry out distribution policy that is knowledge-
and value-oriented to mobilize mass innovation and
entrepreneurship.
Innovation Confi dence: look forward to reaching
innovation summit
In 2018, Beidou Navigation Satellite System will
cover major countries along the Belt and Road.
China, boasting splendid S&T history, is producing
more intellectual achievements for the world.
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
Climb to science and technology summit with steadfast steps of
Chinese characteristics.
Asymmetrical overtaking
Quantum communication and quantum computer, brain science
and brain-like research, deep underwater space station, space
ground integration...
On the journey to build a global science and technology
power, China will create a tiered systematic pattern with major S&T
programs for 2030 and major national S&T special projects already
started in 2006.
Innovation creates China Heart
We will continue to carry out the special project of core
electronic component, high-end common chip and basic software,
set up Aero Engine Corporation of China (AECC), mobilize our
strengths to make breakthroughs in integrated circuit, engine
and gas turbine to get the “Pearl of Industrial Crown” as soon as
possible.
Further reform, consolidate foundation and highlight environment
About 90% of modern technology innovation findings stem
from basic research. China lags behind in basic research, so core
technology are controlled by others. We need to make more efforts
into basic research and make more innovations and create fl exible
innovation environment.
China’s Strengths Creates Innovation Miracles
Launch the
first Mars
probe
Launch Chang’e 4 China deploys important
and carry out world’s programs like quantum
first exploration on communication and
far side of the Moon. quantum computer.
Innovation is “fl owing water”,
making China’s seed of advanced ideas into towering trees.
Innovation is “perpetual motion machine”
advancing our development boldly.
Growing from a poor country to a rich and strong one, China is
now emerging as an innovative country. The gate for the rejuvenation
of the Chinese nation is already open.
(Source: Xinhua Net, August 18 2017)

--- Source: 国务院关于深入实施“人工智能+”行动的意见.pdf ---

2026/5/19 19:11 国务院关于深入实施“人工智能+”行动的意⻅
国务院关于深入实施“人工智能+”行动的意⻅
发布时间:2025-08-27 来源:中国政府网 字号:[大][中][小]
国发〔2025〕11号
各省、自治区、直辖市人⺠政府,国务院各部委、各直属机构:
为深入实施“人工智能+”行动,推动人工智能与经济社会各行业各领域广泛深度融合,重塑人类生产生活范式,促进生产力革命性
跃迁和生产关系深层次变革,加快形成人机协同、跨界融合、共创分享的智能经济和智能社会新形态,现提出如下意⻅。
一、总体要求
以习近平新时代中国特色社会主义思想为指导,完整准确全面贯彻新发展理念,坚持以人⺠为中心的发展思想,充分发挥我国数
据资源丰富、产业体系完备、应用场景广阔等优势,强化前瞻谋划、系统布局、分业施策、开放共享、安全可控,以科技、产业、消
费、⺠生、治理、全球合作等领域为重点,深入实施“人工智能+”行动,涌现一批新基础设施、新技术体系、新产业生态、新就业岗位
等,加快培育发展新质生产力,使全体人⺠共享人工智能发展成果,更好服务中国式现代化建设。
到2027年,率先实现人工智能与6大重点领域广泛深度融合,新一代智能终端、智能体等应用普及率超70%,智能经济核心产业规
模快速增⻓,人工智能在公共治理中的作用明显增强,人工智能开放合作体系不断完善。到2030年,我国人工智能全面赋能高质量发
展,新一代智能终端、智能体等应用普及率超90%,智能经济成为我国经济发展的重要增⻓极,推动技术普惠和成果共享。到2035年,
我国全面步入智能经济和智能社会发展新阶段,为基本实现社会主义现代化提供有力支撑。
二、加快实施重点行动
(一)“人工智能+”科学技术
1.加速科学发现进程。加快探索人工智能驱动的新型科研范式,加速“从0到1”重大科学发现进程。加快科学大模型建设应用,推动
基础科研平台和重大科技基础设施智能化升级,打造开放共享的高质量科学数据集,提升跨模态复杂科学数据处理水平。强化人工智
能跨学科牵引带动作用,推动多学科融合发展。
2.驱动技术研发模式创新和效能提升。推动人工智能驱动的技术研发、工程实现、产品落地一体化协同发展,加速“从1到N”技术落
地和迭代突破,促进创新成果高效转化。支持智能化研发工具和平台推广应用,加强人工智能与生物制造、量子科技、第六代移动通
信(6G)等领域技术协同创新,以新的科研成果支撑场景应用落地,以新的应用需求牵引科技创新突破。
3.创新哲学社会科学研究方法。推动哲学社会科学研究方法向人机协同模式转变,探索建立适应人工智能时代的新型哲学社会科学
研究组织形式,拓展研究视野和观察视域。深入研究人工智能对人类认知判断、伦理规范等方面的深层次影响和作用机理,探索形成
智能向善理论体系,促进人工智能更好造福人类。
(二)“人工智能+”产业发展
1.培育智能原生新模式新业态。鼓励有条件的企业将人工智能融入战略规划、组织架构、业务流程等,推动产业全要素智能化发
展,助力传统产业改造升级,开辟战略性新兴产业和未来产业发展新赛道。大力发展智能原生技术、产品和服务体系,加快培育一批
底层架构和运行逻辑基于人工智能的智能原生企业,探索全新商业模式,催生智能原生新业态。
2.推进工业全要素智能化发展。推动工业全要素智能联动,加快人工智能在设计、中试、生产、服务、运营全环节落地应用。着力
提升全员人工智能素养与技能,推动各行业形成更多可复用的专家知识。加快工业软件创新突破,大力发展智能制造装备。推进工业
供应链智能协同,加强自适应供需匹配。推广人工智能驱动的生产工艺优化方法。深化人工智能与工业互联网融合应用,增强工业系
统的智能感知与决策执行能力。
3.加快农业数智化转型升级。加快人工智能驱动的育种体系创新,支持种植、养殖等农业领域智能应用。大力发展智能农机、农业
无人机、农业机器人等智能装备,提高农业生产和加工工具的智能感知、决策、控制、作业等能力,强化农机农具平台化、智能化管
理。加强人工智能在农业生产管理、⻛险防范等领域应用,帮助农⺠提升生产经营能力和水平。
https://www.mee.gov.cn/zcwj/gwywj/202508/t20250827_1126207.shtml 1/3
2026/5/19 19:11 国务院关于深入实施“人工智能+”行动的意⻅
4.创新服务业发展新模式。加快服务业从数字赋能的互联网服务向智能驱动的新型服务方式演进,拓展经营范围,推动现代服务业
向智向新发展。探索无人服务与人工服务相结合的新模式。在软件、信息、金融、商务、法律、交通、物流、商贸等领域,推动新一
代智能终端、智能体等广泛应用。
(三)“人工智能+”消费提质
1.拓展服务消费新场景。培育覆盖更广、内容更丰富的智能服务业态,加快发展提效型、陪伴型等智能原生应用,支持开辟智能助
理等服务新入口。加强智能消费基础设施建设,提升文娱、电商、家政、物业、出行、养老、托育等生活服务品质,拓展体验消费、
个性消费、认知和情感消费等服务消费新场景。
2.培育产品消费新业态。推动智能终端“万物智联”,培育智能产品生态,大力发展智能网联汽⻋、人工智能手机和电脑、智能机器
人、智能家居、智能穿戴等新一代智能终端,打造一体化全场景覆盖的智能交互环境。加快人工智能与元宇宙、低空⻜行、增材制
造、脑机接口等技术融合和产品创新,探索智能产品新形态。
(四)“人工智能+”⺠生福祉
1.创造更加智能的工作方式。积极发挥人工智能在创造新岗位和赋能传统岗位方面的作用,探索人机协同的新型组织架构和管理模
式,培育发展智能代理等创新型工作形态,推动在劳动力紧缺、环境高危等岗位应用。大力支持开展人工智能技能培训,激发人工智
能创新创业和再就业活力。加强人工智能应用就业⻛险评估,引导创新资源向创造就业潜力大的方向倾斜,减少对就业的冲击。
2.推行更富成效的学习方式。把人工智能融入教育教学全要素、全过程,创新智能学伴、智能教师等人机协同教育教学新模式,推
动育人从知识传授为重向能力提升为本转变,加快实现大规模因材施教,提高教育质量,促进教育公平。构建智能化情景交互学习模
式,推动开展方式更灵活、资源更丰富的自主学习。鼓励和支持全⺠积极学习人工智能新知识、新技术。
3.打造更有品质的美好生活。探索推广人人可享的高水平居⺠健康助手,有序推动人工智能在辅助诊疗、健康管理、医保服务等场
景的应用,大幅提高基层医疗健康服务能力和效率。推动人工智能在繁荣文化生产、增强文化传播、促进文化交流中展现更大作为,
利用人工智能辅助创作更多具有中华文化元素和标识的文化内容,壮大文化产业。充分发挥人工智能对织密人际关系、精神慰藉陪
伴、养老托育助残、推进全⺠健身等方面的重要作用,拓展人工智能在“好房子”全生命周期的应用,积极构建更有温度的智能社会。
(五)“人工智能+”治理能力
1.开创社会治理人机共生新图景。有序推动市政基础设施智能化改造升级,探索面向新一代智能终端发展的城市规划、建设与治
理,提升城市运行智能化水平。加快人工智能产品和服务向乡村延伸,推动城乡智能普惠。深入开展人工智能社会实验。安全稳妥有
序推进人工智能在政务领域应用,打造精准识别需求、主动规划服务、全程智能办理的政务服务新模式。加快人工智能在各类公共资
源招标投标活动中的应用,提升智能交易服务和监管水平。
2.打造安全治理多元共治新格局。推动构建面向自然人、数字人、智能机器人等多元一体的公共安全治理体系,加强人工智能在安
全生产监管、防灾减灾救灾、公共安全预警、社会治安管理等方面的应用,提升监测预警、监管执法、指挥决策、现场救援、社会动
员等工作水平,增强应用人工智能维护和塑造国家安全的能力。加快推动人工智能赋能网络空间治理,强化信息精准识别、态势主动
研判、⻛险实时处置等能力。
3.共绘美丽中国生态治理新画卷。提高空天地海一体化动态感知和国土空间智慧规划水平,强化资源要素优化配置。围绕大气、
水、海洋、土壤、生物等多要素生态环境系统和全国碳市场建设等,提升人工智能驱动的监测预测、模拟推演、问题处置等能力,推
动构建智能协同的精准治理模式。
(六)“人工智能+”全球合作
1.推动人工智能普惠共享。把人工智能作为造福人类的国际公共产品,打造平权、互信、多元、共赢的人工智能能力建设开放生
态。深化人工智能领域高水平开放,推动人工智能技术开源可及,强化算力、数据、人才等领域国际合作,帮助全球南方国家加强人
工智能能力建设,助力各国平等参与智能化发展进程,弥合全球智能鸿沟。
2.共建人工智能全球治理体系。支持联合国在人工智能全球治理中发挥主渠道作用,探索形成各国广泛参与的治理框架,共同应对
全球性挑战。深化与国际组织、专业机构等交流合作,加强治理规则、技术标准等对接协调。共同研判、积极应对人工智能应用⻛
险,确保人工智能发展安全、可靠、可控。
三、强化基础支撑能力
https://www.mee.gov.cn/zcwj/gwywj/202508/t20250827_1126207.shtml 2/3
2026/5/19 19:11 国务院关于深入实施“人工智能+”行动的意⻅
(七)提升模型基础能力。加强人工智能基础理论研究,支持多路径技术探索和模型基础架构创新。加快研究更加高效的模型训练
和推理方法,积极推动理论创新、技术创新、工程创新协同发展。探索模型应用新形态,提升复杂任务处理能力,优化交互体验。建
立健全模型能力评估体系,促进模型能力有效迭代提升。
(八)加强数据供给创新。以应用为导向,持续加强人工智能高质量数据集建设。完善适配人工智能发展的数据产权和版权制度,
推动公共财政资助项目形成的版权内容依法合规开放。鼓励探索基于价值贡献度的数据成本补偿、收益分成等方式,加强数据供给激
励。支持发展数据标注、数据合成等技术,培育壮大数据处理和数据服务产业。
(九)强化智能算力统筹。支持人工智能芯片攻坚创新与使能软件生态培育,加快超大规模智算集群技术突破和工程落地。优化国
家智算资源布局,完善全国一体化算力网,充分发挥“东数西算”国家枢纽作用,加大数、算、电、网等资源协同。加强智能算力互联
互通和供需匹配,创新智能算力基础设施运营模式,鼓励发展标准化、可扩展的算力云服务,推动智能算力供给普惠易用、经济高
效、绿色安全。
(十)优化应用发展环境。布局建设一批国家人工智能应用中试基地,搭建行业应用共性平台。推动软件信息服务企业智能化转
型,重构产品形态和服务模式。培育人工智能应用服务商,发展“模型即服务”、“智能体即服务”等,打造人工智能应用服务链。健全人
工智能应用场景建设指引、开放度评价与激励政策,完善应用试错容错管理制度。加强知识产权保护、转化与协同应用。加快重点领
域人工智能标准研制,推进跨行业、跨领域、国际化标准联动。
(十一)促进开源生态繁荣。支持人工智能开源社区建设,促进模型、工具、数据集等汇聚开放,培育优质开源项目。建立健全人
工智能开源贡献评价和激励机制,鼓励高校将开源贡献纳入学生学分认证和教师成果认定。支持企业、高校、科研机构等探索普惠高
效的开源应用新模式。加快构建面向全球开放的开源技术体系和社区生态,发展具有国际影响力的开源项目和开发工具等。
(十二)加强人才队伍建设。推进人工智能全学段教育和全社会通识教育,完善学科专业布局,加大高层次人才培养力度,超常规
构建领军人才培养新模式,强化师资力量建设,推进产教融合、跨学科培养和国际合作。完善符合人工智能人才职业属性和岗位特点
的多元化评价体系,更好发挥领军人才作用,给予⻘年人才更大施展空间,鼓励积极探索人工智能“无人区”。支持企业规范用好股
权、期权等中⻓期激励方式引才留才用才。
(十三)强化政策法规保障。健全国有资本投资人工智能领域考核评价和⻛险监管等制度。加大人工智能领域金融和财政支持力
度,发展壮大⻓期资本、耐心资本、战略资本,完善⻛险分担和投资退出机制,充分发挥财政资金、政府采购等政策作用。完善人工
智能法律法规、伦理准则等,推进人工智能健康发展相关立法工作。优化人工智能相关安全评估和备案管理制度。
(十四)提升安全能力水平。推动模型算法、数据资源、基础设施、应用系统等安全能力建设,防范模型的黑箱、幻觉、算法歧视
等带来的⻛险,加强前瞻评估和监测处置,推动人工智能应用合规、透明、可信赖。建立健全人工智能技术监测、⻛险预警、应急响
应体系,强化政府引导、行业自律,坚持包容审慎、分类分级,加快形成动态敏捷、多元协同的人工智能治理格局。
四、组织实施
坚持把党的领导贯彻到“人工智能+”行动全过程。国家发展改革委要加强统筹协调,推动形成工作合力。各地区各部⻔要紧密结合
实际,因地制宜抓好贯彻落实,确保落地⻅效。要强化示范引领,适时总结推广经验做法。要加强宣传引导,广泛凝聚社会共识,营
造全社会共同参与的良好氛围。
国务院
2025年8月21日
[打印]仅打印内容
https://www.mee.gov.cn/zcwj/gwywj/202508/t20250827_1126207.shtml 3/3