MAKE FRANCE
AN AI POWERHOUSE
FEBRUARY 10TH AND 11TH, 2025
Table of contents
Editorial by the President of the Republic 2
The strategy implemented since 2018 has made France a leader in AI 3
France, a leader in AI .............................................................................................3
France is home to leading companies and a globally recognized R&D hub ...............4
France offers AI solutions tailored to all economic sectors .......................................6
France is developing AI technologies tailored to each modality ................................6
France has an AI ecosystem covering the entire value chain ....................................7
Since 2018, more than €2.5 billion has been invested in research and technology ...9
Its attractiveness is built on several pillars 11
A reputation for talents & formation ....................................................................11
Strengthening public computing infrastructures ...................................................15
Support for innovation through France 2030 ........................................................16
The French territory has many advantages for hosting dedicated AI infrastructure 18
A decarbonized, abundant, and stable electricity supply ........................................18
An ever-expanding high-voltage grid .....................................................................20
Suitable sites for data center projects ...................................................................20
Ready to use low carbon AI-sites through all of France ..........................................21
Streamlined procedures ......................................................................................22
Editorial by the President
of the Republic
A STRONG POLITICAL VISION
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT
OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
IN FRANCE
France has everything it needs to secure its place in
the AI revolution. Talents, in abundance: great scien-
tists, researchers, entrepreneurs, students. Decarbonized
energy, abundant and provided consistently. Funding and
the AI summit will be an opportunity to highlight historic
levels of public and private investments, driven by French,
European, and international players. Finally, data, which
we have to secure and broaden access to.
At the heart of Europe, at the heart of the AI revolution,
France is a crossroads for all those who want to create and
innovate. In this regard, France aims to host and reinforce
its talents, corporates, as well as cutting-edge infrastructures for the development and use
of AI, to serve its innovation ecosystem, from startups to industry and research laboratories.
And if we succeed to position ourselves at the heart of hosting major global infrastructures,
France will reduce the sector’s global footprint, thanks to our low-carbon energy mix.
This is our ambition: to celebrate our pride, enable success, and bring the progress of tomor-
row. To leave our French imprint on the coming century, and to develop a strong project
for the deployment of AI at the European level, by supporting the emergence of the best
researchers and future international champions.
This ambition must be reflected in all our research and training centers. To massively train
all French people in this field. To strengthen our research centers, retain, and attract the best
researchers.
This ambition will also be reflected concretely across all our territories. To achieve this, we
have notably worked on identifying sites to help actors develop their projects in France. We
can already announce 35 suitable sites, some of which could host projects up to 1GW. The
progress driven by AI is already here. Let us deploy it across all our territories. Let us bring
it into the lives of everyone. With confidence and ambition
.
2
The strategy implemented
since 2018 has made France
a leader in AI
Building on an ambitious national strategy initiated and driven by the President of the
Republic since 2017, France is now positioned among the global leaders in artificial
intelligence.
FRANCE, A LEADER IN AI
France is experiencing rapid growth in the field of artificial intelligence (AI). Thanks to sus-
tained innovation dynamics, world’s top-level talents, record fundraising, and the establish-
ment of major international players, the French AI ecosystem is developing and structuring
itself at an unprecedented pace.
→ In 2023, France ranks 3RD in the Stanford Global AI Vibrancy
Ranking for research, training, and AI infrastructure
→ In 2025, France has more than 1,000 AI startups, including gems
like Mistral AI, H Company, Poolside, as well as applications such as
Alan, Pigment, Doctolib, and more
→ France has moved from 13TH place in 2023 to 5TH place in 2024
in the Global AI Index
→ France is the third country in the world in terms of the number
of AI researchers
→ It is now recognized as the leading hub for generative AI
in Europe
3
FRANCE IS HOME TO LEADING COMPANIES
AND A GLOBALLY RECOGNIZED R&D HUB
FRENCH COMPANIES ARE COMPETING WITH THE LARGEST
GLOBAL PLAYERS
France is the R&D base or decision-making center for Europe of several global AI players,
such as Mistral AI (valued at €6 billion), Hugging Face (€4.3 billion), and Dataiku (€3.5
billion).
+ de 1,000 1sT European €1.9 bn
IA startups country for raised in AI
in 2025 foreign investment in 2024
projects in AI
The structuring of French investment funds, coupled with the attractiveness of France for
foreign investments, enables world-class AI companies to grow. The fundraising of our start-
ups proves it.
A DYNAMIC AND ROBUST ECOSYSTEM
Since 2021, the number of AI-focused startups in France has doubled, now exceed-
ing 1,000 companies. In 2024, these startups raised €1.9 billion. With 30% of
national venture capital investments dedicated to AI, France leads ahead of the
United States (28%), the United Kingdom (25%), and China (17%).
Remarkable fundraising for companies among the biggest global successes, such
as Mistral AI (€1.2 billion), Poolside (€526 million), H (€250 million), Photoroom
(€62 million), Aqemia (€60 million), Bioptimus (€40 million), Flex.AI (€35 million),
and DUST (€16 million).
16 French unicorns have a value proposition related to AI, confirming the country's
excellence in this field.
French startups are becoming more attractive and benefiting from more exit oppor-
tunities. In 2024, several major transactions marked the ecosystem. Preligens was
acquired by Safran and Datakalab by Apple. Finally, LightOn went public in Paris,
showcasing the maturity and dynamism of the sector.
4
Large French companies have also embraced AI: Thales has structured its organ-
ization around the Cortex initiative, while CMA-CGM, Iliad, and Schmidt Futures
co-founded the private lab Kyutai.
France has been the top destination in Europe for foreign investment projects in AI
for over five years, according to the EY barometer.
France is the main host country for the AI research and decision-making centers for
Europe of global tech giants, such as Alphabet (Google), DeepMind, Meta, OpenAI,
as well as Cisco, Criteo, Fujitsu, HPE, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, Samsung, SAP, and Uber.
France is home to some of the largest computing centers in Europe, both public,
such as Jean Zay-GENCI, and private, with players like Scaleway, Outscale, and OVH.
France has more than 4,000 AI researchers within its research organizations, spread
across 9 centers of excellence (“AI Clusters”) and its major laboratories.
Each year, more than 40,000 students and professionals are trained in AI, with the
goal of reaching 100,000 trained annually.
5
FRANCE OFFERS AI SOLUTIONS TAILORED
TO ALL ECONOMIC SECTORS
FRANCE IS DEVELOPING AI TECHNOLOGIES
TAILORED TO EACH MODALITY
6
FRANCE HAS AN AI ECOSYSTEM COVERING
THE ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN
7
A POLICY FOCUSED ON INNOVATION AND ATTRACTIVENESS
8
SINCE 2018, MORE THAN €2.5 BILLION HAS BEEN
INVESTED IN RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
The first phase of the €1.5 billion National AI Strategy (2018-2022) has helped to struc-
ture a strong research ecosystem.
PHASE 1 → Creation of 4 institutes 180 research chairs
3 IA
€1.5 bn
300 doctoral programs
→ Construction of the
to structure
Jean Zay supercomputer
> 40,000 students trained
research
→ Creation of the Health in AI per year
Data Hub
Since 2022, the second phase, supported by €1 billion via the France 2030 investment
plan, aims to make this technology a transformative lever for production and innovation.
PHASE 2 → Creation of 9 excellence From 40,000 to 100,000
training hubs: students trained in AI
€1 bn
“AI Clusters” per year
to accelerate
→ Expansion of the
€400 m in direct aid for
innovation
Jean Zay supercomputer
public and private R&D
With phase 3, the State supports the deployment of strategic infrastructures and pro-
motes a broader adoption of AI within society, businesses, and public services.
PHASE 3 → C ontinuation of investments in research and training
Accelerated → Acceleration of AI deployment in businesses
and public services
the spread
→ Implementation of “AI Cafés” to foster democratic
debate on AI
→ Creation of the first European institute for
AI evaluation and security (INESIA)
9
HELPING THE PUBLIC UNDERSTAND AND EMBRACE AI
In May 2024, the President of the Republic tasked the National Digital Council (CNNum)
with creating a national initiative for democratic debate and educational outreach on artifi-
cial intelligence, known as “AI Cafés”.
The AI Cafés aim to:
→ Foster a better understanding of AI’s opportunities and challenges
→ Share and develop open educational resources
→ Empower individuals to take an active role in AI adoption
Since the announcement, the CNNum has gathered a broad coalition of stakeholders to
support and drive this initiative collectively. The project is designed as a permanent collab-
orative effort, including:
→ A database of accessible and free AI training programs
→ The development of dedicated educational modules
→ A structured network of facilitators to support AI Café events
The goal is to raise awareness among two million French citizens — including stu-
dents, employees, job seekers, and the general public—by the end of 2027, lever-
aging the expertise of Digital Advisors (Conseillers numériques).
BUILDING TRUSTED AI
As AI becomes increasingly central to sensitive sectors, it requires high standards of relia-
bility and security.
France is equipping itself with the first European institute dedicated to AI evaluation and
security, positioning itself as a key player in the field. This initiative will contribute to analyz-
ing systemic risks associated with AI, supporting national regulators, and actively developing
tools, metrics, and evaluation protocols for AI models.
10
National Institute for AI Evaluation and Security (INESIA)
Launched in January 2025, the National Institute for AI Evaluation and Security
(INESIA) focuses on three key areas:
→ Analysis of systemic risks related to national security
→ Support for AI regulation implementation
→ Evaluation of AI models in terms of performance and operational safety
This initiative allows France to join the global network of "safety institutes,"
which includes Canada, South Korea, the United States, Japan, Kenya, the United
Kingdom, Singapore, and the AI Office of the European Commission.
Its attractiveness is built
on several pillars
A REPUTATION FOR TALENTS & FORMATION
FRANCE: A GLOBAL HUB FOR AI TALENTS
The excellence of its schools and universities enables France to train some of the world's top
engineers, often behind cutting-edge AI technologies. Companies rely on the scientific and
engineering expertise of talent educated in France, which enjoys an international reputation.
2nD in the EU 7TH position
in terms worldwide in terms
of publications of publications in
at AI scientific AI-related scientific
conferences conferences
11
Investment in training is a cornerstone of our strategy. As part of France 2030, the AI
training component aims to support the development of AI in France through a skilled and
large workforce.
The country also stands out for its unique open-source ecosystem, bringing together
emblematic projects such as Mistral AI, Hugging Face, Probabl, and scikit-learn, among
the world’s leading open-source AI algorithm libraries.
Focus on excellence training hubs in AI: the “AI Clusters”
The 3IA institutes network, launched in 2019, has facilitated the
creation of high-quality public-private partnerships, with over
40 chairs and 300 doctoral contracts funded.
With a budget of €360 million, the AI Clusters program aims to amplify this
dynamic by strengthening our training and research, while structuring schools
and businesses in a unique setting. It creates 9 training and excellence hubs
in artificial intelligence, the AI clusters. The goal for 2030 is to train 100,000
people, including 20,000 in continuing education, and to position at least one
institution of excellence among the top international ranks.
12
Focus on the “Skills and Future Professions” Program
In order to achieve the training objectives of the national strategy for
artificial intelligence, the training projects supported by the 'Skills and
Future Professions' program must aim to generalize AI training across the
entire country, at all levels of qualifications, in initial education, through
apprenticeships, and in continuing education, with a focus on AI as a core
profession, double competence, or disciplinary expertise.
A WELCOMING ENVIRONMENT FOR RESEARCHERS
France offers a suitable legal framework and several attractive schemes that facilitate the
arrival of international talents to the country, including:
The “Talent Passport” is a long-stay visa (VLS) designed to welcome highly skilled
professionals, including foreign scientists and researchers.
The “French Tech Visa” allows international talents to settle in France, specifically
targeting those working in the sector of technological and innovative startups.
More than 300 'junior professor chairs' are offered each year to young research-
ers, allowing them to quickly access permanent positions such as university profes-
sors or research directors. Over 45% of the awardees come from abroad.
Bilateral programs exist to facilitate the arrival of young researchers in France
(e.g., the Graduate Research Opportunities Worldwide (GROW) Program of the
National Science Foundation, the PhD-Track program of the Franco-German
University, and various Hubert Curien (PHC) programs from the French Ministry for
Europe and Foreign Affairs).
At the European level, the ERC programs and the Marie Skłodowska-Curie schol-
arships facilitate and encourage mobility within Europe, and a European directive
harmonizes the procedure for welcoming foreign scientists within the EU.
13
INTERNATIONAL EXCELLENCE AGREEMENTS BETWEEN SCHOOLS
AND UNIVERSITIES SPECIALIZING IN AI
Our engineering schools and universities, with our world-class researchers and strong exper-
tise in mathematics, are highly sought after globally, and international agreements in AI are
materializing.
In this regard, on February 5th, 2025, the French engineering school Ecole Polytechnique
signed a protocol agreement with the United Arab Emirates Mohamed bin Zayed University
for Artificial Intelligence (MBZUIA). This partnership will focus on a collaborative research
and training program in AI, including the development and advancement of AI methods,
tools, and training, particularly for foundational models.
Focus on the Talent Passport
The Talent Passport, a specific long-stay visa (VLS) for welcoming foreign
scientists, allows them to stay and work in France, exempting the
employer from requesting a work permit.
The conditions for accessing this visa are as follows:
→ Hold a degree equivalent to at least a Master's;
→ Be assigned a research or higher education teaching mission that
specifies the nature and duration of the work entrusted to the scientist or
doctoral student;
→ Have a hosting agreement.
The spouse and minor children of the holder of a 'Talent Passport – Researcher'
VLS can benefit from the simplified 'accompanying family' procedure and
join France without the need for a family reunification process.
Higher education and research institutions are exempt from the nationality
requirement generally required to access public sector jobs.
They can thus hire scientists (researchers and teacher-researchers) who
are non-EU nationals, subject to the application of provisions related to the
protection of the nation's scientific and technical heritage.
14
FRANCE 2030 SERVING AI TALENT TRAINING AND RETENTION
TO CULTIVATE OUR BEST COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
France has successfully consolidated its expertise in key AI research areas such as machine
learning, natural language processing, and computer vision, and more recently, in key con-
cepts such as AI system evaluation and model optimization.
The national research ecosystem is particularly robust and attractive. With the AI Clusters,
the training ecosystems across the country form a natural bridge between research excel-
lence and the expansion of AI talent
The funding of new AI excellence chairs will allow for the continuation of a genuine
attractiveness policy, strengthening the university network, schools, and training
programs, while bringing back French talents.
A ChooseFranceforResearch unit will be launched to support talented researchers
wishing to establish themselves in France.
STRENGTHENING PUBLIC COMPUTING
INFRASTRUCTURES
France continues to strengthen its strategic autonomy with three major supercomputers:
Jean Zay, Adastra, and Alice Recoque.
Jean Zay The most powerful supercomputer in France. Operated
by CNRS/IDRIS since 2019, it has undergone successive
expansions, increasing its cumulative power to 125.9
Petaflop/s with over 1,400 H100 GPUs. Since 2018, the
Jean Zay supercomputer has supported more than 1,200
AI projects, including the BigScience project coordinated by
HuggingFace, involving over 1,000 European researchers.
Adastra Performance and energy efficiency. Installed at CINES in
2022, the new Adastra2 extension, acquired by GENCI in
2024, deploys technology similar to the two most powerful
supercomputers in the world. Adastra2 stands out for its
energy efficiency, ranking 3RD on the global Green500, with a
performance of 69.1 Gflop/s per Watt.
Alice Recoque Future French exascale supercomputer. As part of the
EuroHPC program, France is investing in an exaflop-class
supercomputer, which will be hosted at TGCC (CEA). Alice
Recoque will be the second European exascale supercompu-
ter. Its computing power will reach the equivalent of 25,000
NVIDIA H100 GPUs.
15
EuroHPC AI Factories: Towards a European Network for AI
In the summer of 2024, EuroHPC expanded its scope by opening its computing
infrastructures to the specific needs of AI, with the AI Factories initiative. This
program aims to create a network of AI-focused hubs, which will serve as one-
stop shops for startups, SMEs, and researchers. These hubs will offer easier
access to supercomputers, along with technical support and dedicated training.
In this context, Genci and Inria are leading the French candidacy for AI Factories,
based on the Jean Zay, Adastra, and Alice Recoque infrastructures. This project
strengthens France's position in the global competition for high-performance
computing.
SUPPORT FOR INNOVATION
THROUGH FRANCE 2030
FRANCE 2030 FOR STRENGTHENING OUR COMPUTING
INFRASTRUCTURES AND CRITICAL LINKS IN THE AI
VALUE CHAIN
Public supercomputers are a major asset in providing an alternative to the American cloud
giants. France continues its efforts and facilitates access modalities.
To bring IaaS/PaaS cloud service providers closer to AI software developers, we will
fund French cloud providers developing AI offerings to help them scale up.
We will continue to invest in the development of French and European public and
private computing infrastructures.
We will rely on the European AI Factories initiative to develop the service and
expertise offerings around our supercomputers for research and businesses.
The market for chips and graphics processing units (GPUs) for AI is characterized by its
almost monopolistic nature. However, France can capitalize on breakthrough opportunities,
linked to advancements in the research world, such as middleware or energy optimization
of microelectronic chips.
We will support breakthrough innovation in the chip and middleware sector.
16
FRANCE 2030 SERVING R&D AT THE TECHNOLOGICAL FRONTIER
Excellence in research and innovation is key to positioning France among the leaders in AI.
By relying on the Digital program agencies (INRIA) and Components (CEA), we are focusing
our efforts on a limited number of strategic scientific and technological fields.
The goal is to foster French AI pioneers by supporting a few large-scale projects that enable
the development of high-impact technologies and their adoption.
A selection of highly ambitious R&D projects will be supported to overcome the
scientific and technological barriers that prevent the adoption of AI in the most
critical sectors (healthcare, industry, etc.).
AI research in healthcare is crucial for our country. In order to pursue a true sci-
entific ambition around AI in healthcare, a revamped governance model will bring
together all stakeholders around an AI Health Campus project.
17
The French territory has many
advantages for hosting dedicated
AI infrastructure
France benefits from several assets that make its territory attractive for the establishment of
dedicated AI infrastructure: a plentiful supply of decarbonized energy, a strategic geograph-
ical position, and land specifically suited for data center projects.
A DECARBONIZED, ABUNDANT, AND STABLE
ELECTRICITY SUPPLY
A HYPERCONNECTED TERRITORY LINKED TO EUROPE
AND THE WORLD
→ Mainland France is directly connected by submarine cables to North America, UK,
Africa and Asia
→ Two-thirds of sub-sea cables landing in the EU are landing in France
→ Neighbor to the other 6 biggest data center host countries in Europe
→ Paris is 10-40 ms away (at light speed) from all EU capitals
→ 90% of the territory is covered by the fiber-optic network
Illustration of the submarine cable networks connected to France
18
AN ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SUITED FOR DATA CENTERS
→ France has the most excess power in the EU: +89 TWh net electricity export balance
reached in 2024
→ The production is expected to keep growing by 2 % p.a.
→ 95% of the electricity produced is already low-carbon
→ Only 21,3 g CO2-eq/ kWh (2024), against an average of 292 g in the EU (2023)
Electric mix – source : RTE
COMPETITIVE AND STABLE ELECTRICITY PRICES
The main electricity supplier (EDF) aims for an average selling price for existing nuclear
electricity of around 70 €/MWh (supply price excluding taxes and network fees) over the
next 15 years, with competitive medium-term market (4-5 years) products and, for eligible
projects, long-term partnership contracts (10-15 years) for nuclear production.
Government incentives for electricity-intensive users:
→ a tax rebate of €10.5 /MWh for large DC subject to conditions, especially regarding
environmental performance
→ a discount of €5.7 /MWh off the network fee (« TURPE ») for projects with high volt-
age & baseload profile
19
AN EVER-EXPANDING HIGH-VOLTAGE GRID
→ A steady grid: At the heart of continental Europe, the French grid is hosting more
than 150 GW of installed generation capacity and some of the most powerful industrial
premises in Europe, such as ITER, CERN’s LHC or the new EPR
→ A highly reliable grid: The high voltage grid has a 99,9995% availability. Outages
longer than 3mn occurs less than one every 10 years (3 to 4 years for shorter outages)
→ A developing grid, with a single grid operator responsible for connecting users and
fostering new investments:
- A development plan, whose main goals are to speed up connections for consumers
and generators, solve foreseeable bottlenecks and cope with climate change
- 5 GW of data center capacity already under connection process
SUITABLE SITES FOR DATA CENTER PROJECTS
35 sites 1,200 ha Up to 1 GW €10/m2 up to
€100/m2
35 SUITABLE SITES FOR HOSTING DATA CENTERS
We have identified at least 35 zones in Mainland France that could be suitable to datacenter
projects depending on their characteristics (power, land surface, availability), for a total sur-
face area of over 1,200 Ha:
All of them are well located for connection to the high voltage grid. 15 will eventu-
ally be in a capacity to reach 750MW
For a short-list, the Government and RTE are considering setting up a fast-track
process to connect projects requiring up to 1GW power capacity to the grid by
2028/2029.
Surface areas range from 18 to 150+ ha
At least 16 of them are available immediately and 9 others by 2028
20
4 sites owned by EDF located close to high-voltage power stations could welcome
DC projects, allowing for almost immediate grid connection.
12 are among the “France 2030 turnkey sites” and thus will be delivered with
land-related permitting procedures already carried out
At least 15 are brownfield sites for redevelopment
A dedicated taskforce will support your strategic projects to alleviate any difficulty.
Point of contact: franceforAI@businessfrance.fr / datacenters.dge@finances.gouv.fr
READY TO USE LOW CARBON AI-SITES
THROUGH ALL OF FRANCE
21
STREAMLINED PROCEDURES
Procedures already accelerated by the recent Green Industry Law:
→ It has reduced the optimal authorization procedure time from 9 to 6
months.
→ It has created the status of “Major National Interest Project” (PINM) for
large industrial projects (excluding data centers for now). This status allows
for the acceleration of local urban planning rule adjustments (if necessary),
the securing of exemptions for species protection (if necessary), and
guarantees a fast connection to the electrical grid.
A new bill on 'simplifying business life' to go further on data centers:
→ A new proposed law on "simplifying business operations" is expected to
soon extend the possibility of obtaining PINM status to large data center
projects, thereby accelerating procedures.
→ The scope of the National Public Debate Commission (CNDP) will be
revised to exclude data center projects.
→ Finally, legal procedures against data center projects will be streamlined,
with the removal of the double degree of jurisdiction. This is expected to
save between 9 and 18 months.
22
More than €109 billion in
investments for infrastructure
projects in France
THE INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS OF OUR
COMPANIES AND FOREIGN COMPANIES ON OUR
TERRITORY MAKE FRANCE A STRATEGIC PLAYER
IN TERMS OF COMPUTING POWER.
→ The two Presidents announced their cooperation within the framework of a Joint
Framework Agreement between France and the United Arab Emirates. This agree-
ment includes investments up to €50 billion from a consortium of Franco-Emirati cham-
pions, aimed at creating a 1 GW campus dedicated to artificial intelligence in France. An
announcement regarding the first phase of investment will be made at the Choose France
2025 Summit.
→ AMAZON (USA): Amazon announced at the Choose France Summit in May 2024
that we will invest more than €1.2bn and create more than 3000 permanent jobs in
France. This investment includes increased Amazon Web Services cloud infrastructure,
to support France’s flourishing generative AI opportunity. Our investment is part of a €6
billion investment plan to expand cloud infrastructure in France through to 2031. This is
anticipated to contribute €16.8 billion to France’s GDP while supporting an average of
5,271 full-time jobs annually in the local supply chain.
→ APOLLO (USA): Apollo, a leading global provider of long-duration capital solutions
at scale, to provide capital to power next-gen infrastructure in France
Advancing leading-edge AI capabilities will require substantial investments in infrastruc-
ture, with over $1 trillion of investment expected globally by 2030. Apollo has significant
experience providing scaled, long-duration capital solutions and since 2022 has invested
approximately $25 billion in next-generation infrastructure assets around the world. Apollo
is working diligently on several projects and is prepared to finance Energy Projects with
up to €5.0 billion of long-term capital and believes its capital base can assist France’s AI
competitiveness while meeting the growing need for energy to power economic growth.
→ BROOKFIELD (USA): Brookfield Asset Management has announced plans to invest
€20 billion in AI infrastructure in France.
Up to €15 billion of datacenter investment will be led by Brookfield’s portfolio company,
Data4, one of Europe’s largest datacenter developers, headquartered in Paris. Data4 has
existing plans for over 500 MW of datacenter capacity located across several regions in
France, with an ambition to treble that by 2030 as part of today’s announcement.
A further €5 billion of investment is planned in associated AI infrastructure, including
potentially data transfer, chip storage and energy, from future investments made by
Brookfield in France.
23
→ DIGITAL REALTY (USA): since the start of La Courneuve Digital Park in 2020 (fully
completed in 2025), Digital Realty is investing and will invest significantly in data centers
throughout Paris and Marseille regions, with 13 new datacenters and a total investment
value over €5 billion. The Company is currently planning to potentially invest up to another
€1 billion in datacenters in Paris, increasing the total portfolio in France to more than 25
datacenters assembled since 1999.
These six hybrids, six hyperscale and one colocation datacenters account for 666 MW of
grid connections. These facilities support 2,220 jobs (direct and indirect).
→ ECLAIRION (France): Eclairion deploys complementary capabilities across the ter-
ritory with its new site.
After the delivery to its Bruyères-le-Châtel (Ile de France) site of the first platform exclu-
sively dedicated to hosting supercomputers for AI and scientific computing, with a final
power of 100MW, Eclairion announces a new investment phase for the start of con-
struction on a second site. In Bessé-sur-Braye (Pays de la Loire), with greater power, this
new platform will integrate the feedback already acquired, further optimizing the offer
offered to end users. Eclairion is developing a new generation of data centers combining
cutting-edge technologies, energy optimization, and reduction of environmental impact.
→ EQUINIX (USA): Equinix, the world’s digital infrastructure company, has always con-
sidered France a critical market for IT innovation, connectivity and low carbon abundant
electricity and is committed to providing the infrastructure needed to drive France’s AI
leadership. Equinix is making significant investments in France, with additional invest-
ments of more than €630 million planned and the roll-out of its €750M investment plan
announced in 2022, with 10 data centers operating in Paris and 1 in Bordeaux. Equinix
is also stepping up its support for France's energy transition by signing seven 20-year
Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) adding over 100 MW of capacity in France. Equinix,
with the French government’s strong support, is committed to bold expansion and long-
term investment in the market
→ EVROC (Sweden): evroc, the European cloud company, will build its first AI factory in
Mougins, France, creating a 96 MW hyperscale datacenter with a designed capacity for
up to 50,000 GPUs. The project, expected to be completed in 2025, could see invest-
ments up to EUR 4 billion at full capacity. Moreover, evroc plans to secure two additional
100+ MW sites in France. The company’s AI-first approach, from infrastructure design to
sustainability measures, will strengthen Europe’s AI capabilities while maintaining strict
EU data sovereignty. evroc will also expand its Sophia Antipolis oRice with a dedicated
AI team.
→ FLUIDSTACK (United Kingdom): Fluidstack announces a partnership with the French
Ministry of Economy to deploy the world's largest AI supercomputer in France, with a
capacity reaching 1 GW. Supported by an initial €10 billion investment, this project aims
to position France as a global leader in AI by leveraging nuclear power, a 100% car-
bon-free energy source. Scheduled for launch in 2026, this supercomputer will accelerate
innovation, strengthen France’s digital sovereignty, and create thousands of skilled jobs
across the region.
24
ILIAD (France): the Iliad group renews its ambitious AI strategy and boosts its invest-
ment to over €3 billions, through a variety of initiatives:
- a strategic alliance with InfraVia to build hundreds MW of data center capacity for
Opcore (our datacenter subsidiary);
- the increase in Scaleway's computing capacity to over 5,000 GPUs, as well as the
development of all inference solutions on the sovereign cloud;
- the intensification of Kyutai research, Europe's 1st private-initiative laboratory ded-
icated to open AI research, with the open-source release of a new live translation
model;
- a unique partnership with Mistral to offer all Free Mobile subscribers the new Pro
version of Le Chat Mistral, a premium AI assistant.
→ TELEHOUSE (Japan): a global leader in high-connectivity data centres and subsid-
iary of KDDI Group, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with French
company APL Data Center, a specialist in datacenter engineering and construction. The
MOU outlines plans for the design and construction of eco-friendly spaces capable of
hosting up to 25,000 GPUs dedicated to inference processing, located in Region Sud and
Île-de-France. The investment amounts to €400 million. The group aims to bring these
specialised data centres into operation by 2026.
→ MISTRAL (France): Mistral AI continues its development by launching the largest
supercomputer in Europe.
As a pioneer in generative artificial intelligence, Mistral AI is introducing its first AI cluster
in Essonne, France. Equipped with the latest generation of chips, this will be the largest
AI cluster in Europe. This scalable datacenter will support Mistral AI's growth and its
research and development activities. With this cutting-edge infrastructure which will be
up and running by summer 2025, Mistral AI strengthens its technological independence,
furthering its ambition to democratize artificial intelligence with high-performance, opti-
mized, innovative, and open-source models, products, and solutions.
→ PROLOGIS (United States) announces an investment of over €3.5 billion to support
the growth of artificial intelligence in France.
Prologis is the global leader in logistics real estate. As such, it owns premium sites in the
world’s major data center markets.
Prologis is strengthening its commitment to digital infrastructure with a projected 400MW
project in the Île-de-France region, incorporating heat reuse into public infrastructure
and greenhouses, fostering a technological and sustainable ecosystem. This project is
part of a broader plan with 435MW already secured in Europe, including 184MW in
France, and an additional 400MW to be secured by Q3 2025. The project will create
200 direct jobs and 700 indirect jobs, with project delivery scheduled for 2030.
25
→ SESTERCE (France): the French company Sesterce is launching a major investment
plan for the deployment of AI infrastructure in France. In the first phase of the project,
Sesterce would deploy a datacenter in Drôme to provide its training and inference ser-
vices and host computing capacity, for an investment of 400 million euros. The ambition
is to continue in the Grand Est region with the target of having 600 MW by 2028.
These announcements complement those from the last Choose France Summit in May
2024, which recorded over 56 investment projects in France, totaling more than €15
billion, with €7 billion dedicated to AI, among.
→ Accenture has announced the opening of two generative AI centers in Paris and
Sophia Antipolis, benefiting large enterprises and academic excellence hubs (Institut
Polytechnique de Paris, Sciences Po, ESSEC, Inria);
→ Microsoft has announced a €4 billion investment, the largest to date in France, to
support growth in the new AI-driven economy.
Our AI ecosystem is launching new products and services, while companies integrate
AI technology at all levels. Here are some examples:
Mistral AI accelerates its growth:
→ Launch of Le Chat Pro: The application integrates powerful new features and can
now be used for complex multilingual reasoning tasks, such as text comprehen-
sion, transformation, and code generation. Le Chat Pro Mobile will be offered free
for one year to Free Mobile subscribers, enhancing access to cutting-edge tools for
optimal use.
→ Partnership with Dassault Systèmes: Dassault Systèmes and Mistral AI launch
LLMaaS by OUTSCALE, a solution that combines a sovereign and secure cloud
infrastructure with Mistral AI’s high-performance and sustainable LLM models.
LLMaaS provides industries with a generative AI platform, ensuring intellectual
property protection while leveraging Mistral AI’s precision, responsiveness, and
sustainable performance.
→ Partnership with France Travail: The launch of ChatFT introduces a chatbot con-
nected to internal legal documentation, providing users with quick and efficient access
to essential information. This reduces search time for employees and citizens while
improving efficiency and satisfaction. Additionally, the new MatchFT tool automat-
ically suggests relevant events to users to accelerate their return to employment,
such as training sessions, workshops, o conferences, by analyzing conversations and
matching them with appropriate opportunities.
26
→ Partnership with Veolia: Mistral AI is integrated into the Veolia Secure GPT plat-
form (+LLM Mistral), allowing Veolia’s clients to query real-time data on plant oper-
ations. For example, a municipal water manager can access operational information
and retrieve sensor data from the system.
→ Partnership with Stellantis: A personalized and reliable AI assistant is seam-
lessly integrated into Stellantis’ vehicle architecture and onboard hardware, com-
bining Edge and Cloud models. It can interact with vehicle data and third-party
applications.
→ Launch of Le Chat Universités: This initiative serves as a think tank, bringing
together key players to deploy AI in French universities. Members include Ed
Tech and universities such as Rennes, Haute-Alsace, Paris-Est Créteil, Bordeaux
Montaigne, Nîmes, Montpellier, and the National Conservatory of Arts and Crafts.
The goal is to equip students, teachers, researchers, and administrative staff with
Le Chat Université for educational and research purposes.
Helsing signs multiple strategic partnerships:
→ Partnership with Mistral AI: This strategic partnership places Mistral AI at the fore-
front of AI integration in the defense sector. Building on Helsing’s expertise in defense
applications, such as developing the HX-2 strike drone and enhancing the Eurofighter’s
electronic warfare capabilities, this collaboration paves the way for the next generation
of defense technologies. Mistral AI enhances Helsing’s capabilities with advanced AI
solutions, focusing on the development of Vision-Language-Action models to optimize
future robotic platforms. These models will enable seamless communication between
autonomous systems and human operators, increasing operational efficiency in com-
plex scenarios. This partnership marks a major breakthrough for European defense
technologies, combining AI innovation with real-world applications.
→ Partnership with Loft Orbital: Loft Orbital and Helsing form a strategic partner-
ship in space and defense, aimed at developing next-generation AI-powered ISR
(Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance) satellites. They are launching a mul-
ti-sensor AI-driven ISR constellation that will boost military operational speeds tenfold
by 2026. Ten low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites equipped with various cameras and RF
sensors will utilize Helsing’s AI-powered onboard processing to identify and classify
military assets in real-time worldwide, complementing sovereign defense capabilities.
With high responsiveness, short revisit times, and low latency, this system enables
tactical use of space-based intelligence. An automated AI-supported ground segment
will provide high-value services and continuous updates, ushering in a new era for
European space defense.
27
Among the 600+ use cases recorded as part of the "AI for Efficiency" call for expres-
sions of interest, aimed at selecting the best artificial intelligence projects to be pre-
sented at the AI Action Summit, many illustrate high-quality partnerships and carry
strong potential for the future.
→ Renault is completely rethinking its production chain around AI. Tools developed
in-house allow the company to plan movements and optimize the loading of its truck
fleet, an innovation that saves several million euros annually and significantly reduces
its carbon footprint. The automaker also uses AI, in partnership with Dessia, to generate
innovative industrial designs to improve product quality, reduce design time by 80%, and
decrease resource usage by a factor of 3.
→ SNCF is putting all of its data to work to enhance the traveller experience. The
company has systematized the collection of data from its rolling stock and uses artificial
intelligence for early detection of failures. This leads to a significant reduction in mal-
functions and limits less effective routine checks. SNCF is also developing chatbots with
real-time access to the latest news, capable of effectively interacting with users in case of
traffic disruptions.
→ The media outlet Brut has fully integrated AI into its content production process.
AI does not replace human work but enhances its performance and quality. Brut uses
generative AI to automate some redundant writing tasks, extract information from various
data sources, and synthesize it. Its AI solution, developed in collaboration with its editorial
team, AI experts, and the start-up GladIA, allows the company to focus on the quality of
published articles and the reliability of the information.
28
