AGID Agenzia per
l’Italia Digitale
ITALIAN STRATEGY
FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
2024-2026
1

INDEX
INTRODUCTION 4
CONTEXT ANALYSIS 6
PRINCIPLES OF THE STRATEGY 8
STRATEGY DESIGN 13
STRATEGY FOR RESEARCH 17
STRATEGY FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 21
STRATEGY FOR ENTERPRISES 25
STRATEGY FOR TRAINING 29
MONITORING THE STRATEGY 35
REGULATORY BODIES 37
INTRODUCTION
Artificial Intelligence (AI) technologies have long revea- development goals set by the United Nations Agenda
led their pervasive impact and transformative potential 2030. These strategic indications finally converged in
on social and productive dynamics. Artificial Intelligen- 2021 within the “Strategic Program for Artificial Intelli-
ce is revolutionizing the world we live in and the ways gence” (by the Ministry of University and Research, the
in which we create value across all sectors, profoun- Ministry of Economic Development, and the Minister
dly impacting the education system, professional acti- for Technological Innovation and Digital Transition)
vities, and industry. The roots of this revolution date with actions planned in the time horizon 2022-2024.
back to the mid-20th century, but the advent of machi- The horizon of the strategic program has, therefore,
ne learning in the early 2000s, and more recently, deep now come to an end; but, especially, since 2021 to to-
learning techniques have marked a true turning point, day, the context of reference has significantly changed:
centered on their ability to extract value and knowled- a profound revolution has occurred in recent years in
ge from the analysis of massive data sets. the field of Artificial Intelligence. The regulatory context
has changed, technology has innovated, with the arrival
The arrival of generative systems has, in the past year, of generative systems and the development of so-cal-
made even more evident the innovative and transfor- led Foundation Models, and a new sensitivity towards
mative force of AI, enabling the development of auto- Artificial Intelligence has emerged, a sensitivity that fir-
mation processes characterized by unparalleled ease mly embraces the need for an ethical vision to innova-
of use. Driven by unprecedented international invest- tion, which places people and their needs at the center.
ments in the history of computing, this revolution has
quickly transcended the academic world and research Within such a complex and dynamic scenario, it is now
centers, taking on the characteristics of a genuine so- time to update our strategic vision on Artificial Intelli-
cial phenomenon. The launch of ChatGPT by OpenAI gence, defining a new program that builds on previous
has significantly contributed to creating widespread experiences, sharing the principles of reference for an
awareness, never seen before, about the potential of Italian Artificial Intelligence that fits into a European
a digital paradigm capable of creating, in the very near context and promoting the development of anthropo-
future, a new model of support for individual activities centric, reliable, and sustainable solutions. In revisiting
in a multitude of areas, content, and applications. All the Italian strategy, it is simultaneously essential to
this within a cognitive framework that naturally fuels seize the necessity for innovation, reading and analy-
debate and reflection, in relation to the limits and risks zing the changed conditions of the context, and valuing
associated with the use of such platforms. In its strong the matured awareness (i) of the strategic importan-
and entrenched industrial tradition, Italy has always ce of enhancing our capacity to realize and promote
been able to interpret the opportunities offered by the use of AI solutions in the productive, entrepreneu-
new technologies, standing out as a pioneer in the de- rial, educational, and social fabric, as well as in Public
velopment and adoption of automation solutions for Administration, and (ii) that promoting the distinctive
products and processes. The Italian productive fabric is traits of our country will increasingly pass through the
articulated in a wholly unique ecosystem, animated by encoding and availability of AI data and models ca-
a significant core of large enterprises and a widespre- pable of representing and enhancing its specificities.
ad network of small and medium-sized enterprises, To realize this vision of development, the strategy aims
whose manufacturing vocation probably represents to pursue the following strategic macro-objectives:
its most distinctive trait. The innovation capacity of this
•
supply chain has accompanied, from the post-war pe- Support the creation and adoption of AI applica-
riod to today, the economic and social development of tions to support management practices, production
our country, from the adoption of the first large indu- models, and innovation projects. In particular, it
strial machinery and the definition of the first automa- will be relevant to carry out project activities and
ted production lines to the era of robotics and digital data infrastructure aimed at developing AI sy-
solutions that have enabled the Industry 4.0 paradigm. stems from a country-specific perspective, capable
The Artificial Intelligence revolution is taking root wi- of preserving the competitive differentials of our
thin this fertile and receptive ground, which knows excellences, avoiding their dilution due to the im-
how to delve into tradition with creative verve and a portation of systems developed in other countries.
push for innovation. It is not surprising, therefore, that
•
Italy began addressing the significant challenges posed Promote foundational and applied scientific rese-
by Artificial Intelligence as early as 2018, defining (by arch, encouraging the connection of our resear-
the Agency for Digital Italy) an analysis on the impact of ch units operating on a national scale with major
AI technologies in society, particularly in Public Admi- development platforms operating international-
nistration. In 2020, the Ministry for Economic Develop- ly, and fostering the development of AI applica-
ment then produced a document of “Proposals for an tions consistent with the competitive needs of
Italian Strategy for Artificial Intelligence,” drafted with the country system; concurrently promote the
the aim of defining a strategy focused on supporting development and use of AI to support initiati-
the country’s productivity, in line with the sustainable ves aimed at social well-being, with applications,
4
for example, in the welfare system, in the pro- sake of simplifying the presentation, such actions will
tection of the Italian environmental and cultural be grouped into four macro areas: Research, Public Ad-
heritage, in educational processes, and in health. ministration, Business, and Training. These areas will
nevertheless be linked by some important and specific
•
Create favorable contextual conditions to enhan- cross-cutting actions, oriented towards the definition
ce the potential in terms of AI value generation. of infrastructural elements and the policy of implemen-
In particular, the focus, through a training system tation and coordination of the entire strategy. On each
aiming at excellence, on growing talents with skills area, the strategies will then be defined, also associa-
consistent with the emerging scenario and impro- ting appropriate reference targets: the strategy will, in
ving public administration services through the in- fact, also propose a monitoring system for its imple-
troduction of AI solutions, represents cross-cutting mentation, which represents an essential ingredient to
and enabling priorities. ensure its success. Finally, the document will analyze
the regulatory context that defines the framework wi-
The planning and implementation of projects that can thin which the entire strategy must be deployed.
guide the country with respect to these cardinal poin-
ts requires an awareness of: (i) the key role played by
AI in the geopolitical landscape, and (ii) the absolute
necessity of launching a unified project capable of co-
ordinating and focusing the efforts of all stakeholders.
From this perspective, it is firstly essential to manage
the trade-off between the “risk of inaction” and the un-
derestimation of ethical implications resulting from an
opportunistic use of AI systems.
It is indeed clear that, on one hand, it is highly appro-
priate to support a rapid process of introducing AI into
the Italian socio-technical system to avoid significant
competitive penalties. However, on the other hand, it
is crucial to operate in close coordination with the in-
ternational community to promote a system of rules
consistent with a principle of comprehensive social
responsibility (right to privacy, gender balance, tran-
sparency in the data value chain, etc.). Defining the
strategy indeed requires considering a range of in-
terconnected factors, including social impact, privacy,
security, impact on gender issues, environmental the-
mes, and sustainability.
Finally, it is important to carefully evaluate the dynami-
sm with which AI technologies and applications evolve,
a characteristic that must be reflected in the design
and implementation methods of the various initiatives.
Specifically, on one hand, businesses and public admi-
nistrations need to respond promptly to new stimuli
and competitive challenges; in these contexts, it will be
crucial to promote the adoption of AI solutions already
available nationally or the development of new solu-
tions according to timelines that must be resolved in
the short term, thus leading to tangible and immedia-
te feedback. On the other hand, it will be important to
open a window to the future, addressing technological
challenges in basic and applied research, with the de-
velopment of more complex and innovative solutions
that allow us to acquire a body of knowledge and skills
usable in a medium-long term horizon.
To detail the strategic actions according to the lines
briefly outlined here, the document will preliminarily
analyze the global context and the Italian positioning,
to articulate an overall framework of the vision and the
macro-objectives of the strategy. The actual strategic
actions will then be defined, which will indeed be clo-
sely interconnected and related to each other; for the
5
CONTEXT ANALYSIS
Artificial Intelligence in a Global Scenario Artificial Intelligence in Italy
Artificial Intelligence (AI) is currently undergoing ex- In Italy, Artificial Intelligence boasts a robust academic
traordinary development, emerging as a catalyst for tradition dating back to the early 1970s, fostering a vi-
changing the way we live, work, and interact with the brant national ecosystem.
surrounding world. This development is propelled by
intense research activity, leading to significant advan- Italian universities have actively participated in the
cements in AI architectures and models, supported by frenzied technological innovations and the AI revolu-
substantial investments, especially from private sector tion of the past decade. Over 160 university curricula
leaders. Corporate investments, including mergers and in 53 universities are now offering AI-related courses5.
acquisitions, minority stakes, private investments, and Additionally, since the 2020/2021 academic year, the
public offerings, have increased tenfold over just se- National PhD Program in Artificial Intelligence6 has
ven years, from $147 billion in 2013 to a peak of $276 been operational, consisting of five interconnected
billion in 2021, stabilizing at $189 billion in 20221. The PhD programs involving 61 universities and resear-
reach of AI technology has extended well beyond aca- ch institutions. Despite these efforts, there remains
demia and research institutions, significantly impacting a misalignment between the number of AI graduates
society, especially in terms of behavioral and psycholo- and the labor market’s demands, increasingly orien-
gical effects. ted towards new technologies7. Italy lags behind other
member states with the lowest number of ICT sector
Consider that OpenAI’s ChatGPT platform, released in graduates (1.5%)8 and ranks near the bottom in basic
November 2022, reached one hundred million users wi- digital skills among its citizens (45.60%), signaling a cru-
thin just two months, surpassing the growth records of cial need for digital citizenship education and further
popular social networks. More crucially, AI is profoun- professional development in AI9.
dly affecting the global economy, both directly on mar-
kets and production processes and through enhancing In terms of research quality and output, Italy holds
innovation and digital transformation across various a strong international position. It ranked seventh in
fields. It is estimated that generative AI alone could AI publications in 2022 with 3,261 papers, although
generate up to $4.4 trillion in value annually2; sectors it trails behind leaders such as China, India, and the
like retail, financial services, healthcare, and education USA10. Notably, Italian research units are involved in
are expected to benefit the most, with AI potentially in- 12% of all European AI projects, demonstrating signifi-
creasing productivity, enhancing product quality, and cant participation in the AI research landscape.
promoting consumption3.
Italian research institutions are involved in all Europe-
Driven by this technological revolution, a significant an projects under the “Center of Excellence in AI” calls
transformation in the labor market is anticipated. The of Horizon 2020. Additionally, in the Horizon CL4 2022
growing discrepancy between the skills employers de- call for European Lighthouses in AI, Italy led the ELIAS
mand and those job seekers possess, and between the project, which ranked first among 128 submissions.
qualifications required for specific activities and those Italy is also active in European AI Associations, particu-
held by current workers, underscores the urgent need larly in Eu-rAI, CLAIRE, ELLIS, and ADRA. Italy’s scientific
for upskilling and reskilling programs4. community has recently consolidated its experience
through the FAIR Foundation—Future Artificial Intel-
ligence Research, which serves as the single point of
contact with the Ministry of University and Research
(MUR) for the implementation, coordination, and ma-
nagement of the extended partnership on “Foundatio-
nal Aspects of Artificial Intelligence,” funded as part of
the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). FAIR
involves over 350 researchers across 10 hubs, contri-
buting to 13 Italian universities and research centers,
1 Artificial Intelligence Index Report 2023, Stanford University
2 The economic potential of generative AI: The next productivity frontier, McKinsey Digital
3 Report on Sizing the price, PwC
4 Future of Jobs 2023, World Economic Forum
5 Offerta Didattica in Italia sull’IA 2023, Associazione Italiana per l’Intelligenza Artificiale e Laboratorio Nazionale di Artiifcial Intelligence and Intelligent Systems
del Consorzio Interuniversitario Nazionale per l’Informatica
6 https://phd-ai.it
7 Il Futuro delle Competenze nell’Era dell’Intelligenza Artificiale, EY, ManpowerGroup, Sanoma Italia
8 https://digital-decade-desi.digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/datasets/desi/charts/desi-indicators
9 https://www.scimagojr.com/countryrank.php?category=1702
10 Artificial Intelligence: l’era dell’implementazione, Osservatorio Artificial Intelligence del Politecnico di Milano
6
including CNR, FBK, IIT, and INFN, as well as key indu- cy, which analyzes data from the Tax Registry and the
strial stakeholders. Archive of Financial Relationships.
Despite such a dynamic ecosystem in academia and
research, the impact on the industrial and entrepre-
neurial fabric remains somewhat limited11. Only 15%
of Italian SMEs initiated an AI pilot project in 2022, a
figure that, while low, represents a 9% point increase
from the previous year12. Moreover, there are about
600 AI patents and just over 350 AI startups founded
since 2017, placing Italy at the tail end in Europe in this
regard13.
Generative AI could be a significant accelerator, poten-
tially increasing Italy’s GDP by up to 18.2% annually, of-
fering a unique opportunity to strengthen the national
economy14. Indeed, 78.2% of Italian companies plan to
use generative AI techniques in the short to medium
term, particularly for information retrieval, virtual as-
sistants and chatbots, process optimization, creative
support, and scenario simulation and modeling.
An initial push towards adopting innovative solutions,
including AI, in the productive and entrepreneurial con-
text dates back to 2018 with the National Industry 4.0
Plan, which established 8 national competence centers.
The ministerial decree of March 10, 2023, extended the
funding of these centers until 2025, also providing for
the financing of 40 European Digital Innovation Hubs
as per Article 16 of EU Regulation 2021/694. Alongsi-
de the Digital Innovation Hubs (established under the
National Industry 4.0 Plan) and often focused on deli-
vering services based on AI techniques, the EDIHs of-
fer subsidized services for the digitalization of not only
SMEs but also Public Administration.
In fact, the use of AI in Public Administration is one of
the main directions for innovation to radically tran-
sform the image of citizen services, making them more
effective and immediately accessible. Several signifi-
cant experiences have already been gained in this di-
rection.
Among these, notable projects include the design of
the national AGENAS platform to support primary he-
althcare (currently, the procurement procedure with
the largest amount worth €57.57 million); the PRODI-
GIT project, involving the Department of Finance and
the Council of Presidency of Tax Justice, aims to adopt
innovative tools for tax judges’ activities; the INPS’s
experimentation with a generative AI system that al-
lows users accessing the portal to interact with a smart
virtual assistant after making a search query; and the
use of an anti-evasion software by the Revenue Agen-
11 Il Digitale in Italia 2023 Vol. 1, Anitec-Assinform
12 Artificial Intelligence: l’era dell’implementazione, Osservatorio Artificiale Intelligence del Politecnico di Milano
13 https://sifted.eu/articles/which-european-countries-have-the-most-ai-startups
14 AI 4 Italy: impatti e prospettive dell’Intelligenza Artificiale generativa per l’Italia e il Made in Italy, The European House – Ambrosetti, Microsoft
7
PRINCIPLES OF THE STRATEGY
General Vision rest in support—especially—of the weaker sections of
society. It could, for example, become a valuable tool
Artificial Intelligence (AI) offers a wide range of tech-
to address the issues of an ageing society (connected
nologies that, within a short to medium-term horizon,
with demographic decline) by proposing a better qua-
can be utilized to stimulate and accelerate the deve-
lity of life. The perspective of Artificial Intelligence as
lopment of our country. AI is increasingly effective, for
a lever for intervention that rests on the peculiarities
instance, in enhancing business productivity and public
of our country-system to improve competitiveness and
administration efficiency by optimizing processes, re-
quality of life necessitates initiating processes that al-
ducing errors, and improving the quality of products
low Italy to build technologies of its own interest, not
and services. It is enabling innovative approaches in
merely to import and use generic solutions that are
health and medical care, ensuring more comprehen-
poorly adapted to our context. It’s not just about the
sive prevention, earlier diagnoses, and more effective
need to define solutions more in line with the producti-
treatments. AI improves citizens’ experiences in their
ve fabric and our Public Administration, but also about
interactions with institutions; it provides valuable sup-
shaping a vision where Italy—at least on certain speci-
port in educational and learning processes; it is a va-
fic verticals—can play a leading role in the international
luable ally in enhancing the quality of life for individuals
AI ecosystem. This vision also allows for the internali-
and the sustainable management of resources, optimi-
zation of our values and the sentiments of our com-
zing the use of energy and raw materials; it is a crucial
munity within technology, an aspect that will become
element in ensuring national security and the defense
increasingly significant in the coming months conside-
of the country. The development of AI technologies has
ring the growing diffusion of generative technologies.
had, and will increasingly have in the near future, rapid
Remaining merely as users of AI would indeed mark,
rates that will open up opportunities and changes that
in the long term, not only a strategic dependence on
need to be well-managed. It is in this dynamism that
solutions that might not provide adequate guarantees
much of our competitiveness will be decided: the abi-
, but would even lead to a homogenization and cultural
lity to face changes not only as passive spectators of a
stereotyping given the impact these technologies have
historical revolution but as conscious and careful ac-
on our society.
tors, capable of using and producing new technological
solutions, conceived and developed in harmony with
To steer towards this new direction, we must be able
our values and the peculiarities of our country-system.
to support both foundational and applied research,
creating virtuous synergies with public-private par-
From the analysis of the state of the art of Artificial In-
tnerships; we must continue to invest in increasingly
telligence in Italy, there emerges a strong need to con-
efficient infrastructures for computing and increasingly
solidate and strengthen our significant scientific posi-
dedicated to AI applications; and we must increasingly
tions globally, with the awareness that any downturn in
recognize the importance and centrality of our talen-
such a dynamic system would quickly dissipate the va-
ts, aiming for the highest quality standards for their
luable set of skills acquired over the years. At the same
training and actions that can then retain them in Italy
time, there is a need to interpret these technologies as
with concrete prospects for personal and professional
an opportunity to enhance our strong industrial tradi-
growth.
tion, innovating in line with the peculiarities that make
us unique internationally. It is an opportune moment
Sectors and Areas of Application
to reflect on oneself, to embrace change, and to sha-
pe the future with an awareness of our own distinctive
To materialize the vision outlined here, investments
identities and potentials.
in Artificial Intelligence must cover all areas and pos-
sible fields of application, however, particular atten-
Italy is a major industrial country, whose production
tion should be given to those that play a prominent
system—firmly anchored to a vision of excellence in
role in the Italian productive and social fabric. Regar-
production and products—can leverage the new po-
ding the use of AI to strengthen our country’s compe-
tential offered by Artificial Intelligence to enable new
titiveness, areas of particular interest for developing
and more effective solutions to enhance the country’s
and promoting the use of new AI solutions both in
competitiveness. On the other hand, Artificial Intelli-
applied research and in business solutions include:
gence can and must also be oriented to support the
social well-being of Italians. Significant impacts could •
The Made in Italy industry, with particular focus on
be seen in the welfare system, in the protection of envi-
manufacturing identity and supply chains in au-
ronmental and cultural heritage, in educational proces-
tomation, agri-food, furniture, clothing, as well as
ses, and in health, intensively across a broad spectrum,
sectors of tourism, chemicals and pharmaceuticals,
not only as an individual right but as a collective inte-
15 Do Foundation Model Providers Comply with the Draft EU AI Act?, Stanford CRFM
8
and aerospace; ded research, which can proceed with the utmost
•
The Digital industry, with ICT service companies freedom in its experimentation activities, using con-
and for the development of digital network infra- tent and data for the creation of datasets and the
structure that enable AI solutions; training of models made available in open source.
•
The Financial industry, where the use of AI is now
a consolidated reality internationally, including PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
banking/insurance services. Regarding the use of
Italy must make its administrative processes more
AI as a lever for improving the quality of life of in-
efficient and improve the quality of services offered
dividuals and promoting the well-being of society,
to citizens through the use of Artificial Intelligen-
areas of particular interest are:
• ce technologies. Public Administrations must be
Health, understood in its “one health” meaning,
guided in the acquisition of AI systems and in the
thus not only in aspects strictly related to promo-
design of new applications specific to their needs,
ting AI digital technologies in the medical field but
through accompaniment paths that take note of the
also for everything related to prevention, defining
current lack of dedicated professional skills. Techno-
healthier lifestyles, and caring for the more vulne-
logies must be deployed by identifying particularly
rable;
• relevant domains, with the aim of automating and
Education, an area where AI technologies are incre-
streamlining processes, supporting strategic plan-
asingly entering with dynamics that must be guided
ning and the management of public resources, pro-
to preserve the quality of the overall system;
• viding decision-making support, and ensuring the
The protection of the territory, with reference to
realization of secure IT infrastructures developed by
cultural and environmental assets, communities,
highly qualified and reliable entities, also through
and all factors connected with the environmental
national platforms that ensure the maximum robu-
sustainability of the digital transition based on AI,
stness and efficiency of the technologies employed.
thus also considering, for example, aspects related
to energy management, especially from renewable
ENTERPRISES
sources, and sustainable mobility;
• The protection of privacy and security of individuals, Italy must facilitate the development and adoption
also in relation to aspects that strategically affect of Artificial Intelligence solutions in businesses,
the defense sector and national cybersecurity. with the perspective not only of streamlining cur-
rent processes but also of enabling new ones that
Public Administration will finally represent a privile- open equally new possibilities for growth. It will be
ged domain of action, due to its repercussions on both necessary to define, at the country-system level, a
aspects outlined above, both for improving competiti- complex of actions that facilitate and accelerate the
veness (for example, through the streamlining of admi- development of businesses, including the smallest
nistrative procedures and in specific areas like justice) ones, taking into account the barriers of skills and
and for enhancing citizen interactions with peripheral infrastructure that hinder the diffusion of new tech-
and central structures. nologies. Special attention must be given to person-
nel training and the creation of synergies with the
academic and research world. Indeed, developing a
Objectives and Strategic Areas
strategy for businesses requires reasoning on a dual
level of action. On one hand, the needs of busines-
The strategic vision for a country that begins to play
ses using new technologies must be intercepted,
a leading role internationally can be implemented by
paying utmost care to the productive sectors that
defining, analytically, specific strategic actions, clo-
characterize the Italian economy and identifying the
sely interconnected and related. For the sole purpo-
actors most capable of bridging the gap between ap-
se of defining a conceptual schematization, the stra-
plied research and the productive and entrepreneu-
tegic actions will be grouped into four macro-areas,
rial fabric. On the other, opportunities for growth of
each characterized by specific strategic objectives.
innovation process enablers, i.e., all companies with
a specific ICT vocation and startups characterized by
RESEARCH
the realization of Artificial Intelligence systems, must
Italy must strengthen investments in foundatio- be enhanced.
nal and applied research in Artificial Intelligence,
promoting the creation of research skills and tech- EDUCATION
nologies specifically tailored to the context of our
Italy must promote high-quality education, aligned
country-system and in line with principles of relia-
with the new skills required to face the challenges
bility and responsibility (Trustworthy AI) and anthro-
that Artificial Intelligence will pose in the coming ye-
pocentric, typical of European paradigms. Scientific
ars. On one side, it will be essential to encourage the
research must maintain and strengthen the impact
teaching of the discipline at the university level in all
of the Italian academy in the international pano-
its facets, including significant ethical issues, within
rama. Special attention must be paid to the public
a wide range of training courses, thus promoting
research ecosystem and, in any case, to state-fun-
9
interdisciplinary collaboration. On the other side, it
will be crucial to focus efforts on specialized techni-
cal courses, such as the National PhD in Artificial In-
telligence, aimed at training researchers destined to
become the true promoters of the adoption of AI in
businesses and Public Administration. Given Italy’s
significant delay in basic digital skills and the immi-
nent impact of Artificial Intelligence on professions,
it also becomes essential to promote educational
pathways for schools and the entire citizenry aimed
at preparing Italian society for the Artificial Intelli-
gence revolution, as well as initiatives for reskilling
and upskilling in all production contexts, not neces-
sarily related to the ICT world.
The four strategic macro-areas, in addition to diffe-
rentiating by specific action areas, obviously have
different temporal horizons of reference. Actions in
the field of Research will have to be developed in a
medium-long term perspective, with the ambition
to explore innovative technological solutions and
still little beaten paths; those instead directed to Pu-
blic Administration and Enterprises will have to be
oriented to provide direct and immediate respon-
ses to the pressing needs for innovation, favoring AI
solutions developable in a short-term perspective.
Training, finally, will express a dual nature, on one
side, defining “patient” actions that aim to widely
spread skills and knowledge; on the other, suppor-
ting actions that require shorter times, such as those
related to reskilling and upskilling paths.
10
outlined for the areas of Training, Research, Public Ad-
Risks of the Strategy
ministration, and Enterprises.
The surprising technological innovations of recent
•
THE RISK OF “NON-ACTION”
years continue to animate a fervent international de-
In a country like Italy, historically resistant to infor-
bate on the risks associated with Artificial Intelligen-
mation and communication technologies and slow,
ce, a debate that has sometimes even overshadowed
timid approaches to pursuing strategic objectives
reflections on the benefits that these technologies can
risk resulting in a waste of resources and a fur-
bring not only to the economy and competitiveness,
ther loss of competitiveness. “Non-action” can be,
but also to the entire society and individuals. We know
in particular, fueled by an approach to innovation
well—from numerous studies focused on ethical and
that limits itself to importing/purchasing existing
legal issues that emerge from the use of AI—that an
solutions, interpreting the revolution of Artificial
inappropriate management of such a transformative
Intelligence as a simple challenge to create in-
lever can represent a factor of acceleration of social
terfaces on a technological world animated by
inequalities and even a risk for democratic stability.
others; therefore, it is necessary to be ambitious,
highlighting the economic value of the use of the-
Technologies—ideally—are born to be impartial, free
se technological systems in services (also public
of biases, conditioning, or human influences; in a public
or of public interest) and in production processes.
context, technologies should act impartially, without fa-
voring specific interests, social groups, or perspectives.
“Non-action” can also be fueled by poorly focused
However, a technology like Artificial Intelligence easily
actions and initiatives that are not able to respond
takes on connotations perceived as “non-neutral,” due
well to the needs of the reference context; therefo-
to its intrinsic connection with the information produ-
re, it is necessary to enhance the capacity to pro-
ced by society, the human choices that guide and direct
duce our technology tailored to the needs, values,
it, and the complexity of interactions it can generate. A
rights, and interests of our country. Investments
strategy for Artificial Intelligence thus takes on a great
must be made in applications and solutions that are
responsibility: to direct technologies knowing that any
oriented to support the specificities of our coun-
orientation has an impact and specific risks.
try-system, favoring a dimension of internal appli-
cation development and not as a result of an im-
Rather than developing a framework of risks linked
port perspective. This also considering the current
to general and thus cross-national assessments, it is
geopolitical competition on technology and in par-
therefore essential to understand the risks of imple-
ticular on AI, a competition in which Italy must par-
menting our specific national strategy, outlined taking
ticipate as a protagonist, also in support and stimu-
into account the specificities of our country-system
lus of the European Union and the Member States.
and oriented on the above-outlined objectives. It is not
superfluous, however, to remember that the overall
•
THE RISK OF HOMOGENIZATION
context in which to place the detailed analysis remains,
Closely connected to the points highlighted abo-
obviously, the comprehensive and systematic regula-
ve is the risk of cultural homogenization, which
tion of Artificial Intelligence proposed by the European
has begun to take shape following the significant
Union, aimed at setting limits so that in the implemen-
advancements of generative AI. If on one hand
tation of these technologies, the values and fundamen-
the Italian strategy aims to increase the diffusion
tal rights shared by the European Community are re-
of AI systems and models, also generative, on the
spected . This context has, moreover, been referred to,
other hand, it must take into account that most
directly or indirectly, by other important international
of these systems are today produced abroad,
acts or declarations of commitment, such as the recent
thus reproducing in our different social context,
U.S. executive order (which seeks to channel the deve-
first and foremost Italian, but also European, ide-
lopments of Artificial Intelligence in the USA on a track
as and values often heterogeneous. This is a very
of safety, reliability, and transparency of solutions)
relevant risk that strongly impacts our society and
or the Bletchley declaration (signed by the European
its rights to freedom, and of which we do not yet
Union and 28 States committed to collaborating to mi-
have a full perception of the outcomes on a global
tigate the risks associated with the use of AI technolo-
scale. Developing a system according to the values
gies, especially Foundation Models).
and the idea of the rights of a nation, brings with
In an analysis that obviously cannot be extensive, the
it the unavoidable interest in having a technology
main risks that are foreseen are outlined below, highli-
compliant with the constitutional values of its legal
ghting for each the methodological approach propo-
order, at the same time reaffirming and preser-
sed to mitigate and consciously address them. These
ving them. Therefore, strategic actions aimed at
approaches will then be subsequently internalized in
promoting generative models, used in particular in
the definition of specific strategic actions that will be
16 https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=celex%3A52021PC0206
17 https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-executive-order-on-safe-secure-and-trustwor-
thy-artificial-intelligence/
18 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-safety-summit-2023-the-bletchley-declaration/the-bletchley-declaration-by-countries-attending-the-ai-safety-
summit-1-2-november-2023
11
the field of Public Administration and citizen servi- terogeneities. The investments provided for by the
ces, must internalize the need to develop systems national strategy—already mentioned above—in
developed in respect of ethics and legislation, human capital, talents, upskilling and reskilling pa-
also in defense of the very values of democracy. ths could therefore transform into heavy social bo-
omerangs, if not defined within the framework of
•
THE RISK OF NATIONAL OVER-REGULATION transparent initiatives, fully accessible and usable
Artificial Intelligence is at the center of the strategy at any latitude of the national territory. Strategic
“A Europe Fit for the Digital Age” defined by the Eu- actions—in particular those related to the world of
ropean Commission, but it is (and will be) impacted training, including corporate training—must there-
by a copious normative production aimed at regu- fore favor system initiatives, which do not resolve
lating the impact of the new generation of techno- in extemporaneous or localized projects. The pu-
logies: on one side, from the rules on protection, blicization of these initiatives and the awareness
valorization, and security of data—personal and of their importance must represent a strategic line
not—(GDPR, Data Act, Data Governance Act, NIS, transversal and common to all specific actions.
etc.); on the other, from those aimed at regulating
•
the role of service providers (Digital Markets Act, THE RISK OF INEFFECTIVENESS
Digital Services Act, European Digital Identity, etc.). Last but not least, the risk that the national strate-
In this already complex regulatory framework, part- gy lacks effectiveness in its implementation, failing
ly already in force, the AI Act will be inserted and to achieve the objectives it sets itself, must also be
its implementation will gradually affect all Mem- considered. This is a risk always concrete in plan-
ber States from the next months. The AI Act will ning, which is exacerbated in this particular dyna-
have to precisely define a harmonized regulatory mic scenario of Artificial Intelligence and by the
framework with the boundaries within which Ar- contingent need to manage simultaneously nume-
tificial Intelligence must be used, outlining simple rous lines of action, which also require significant
but certain rules for producers and users, also with organizational and regulatory adjustments. In fact,
reference to the most recent technological evolu- policies for AI are characterized and will increasin-
tions. Bringing the European regulatory context gly be characterized as a moving target: the spe-
to the national level, it will be necessary to avoid ed of dynamics and changes, in fact, will require
building further normative superstructures in the a continuous process of review, with the risk that
definition of strategic actions, instead working in even accurate planning quickly becomes obsolete.
the direction of promoting the AI Act with guideli- To minimize this risk, an appropriate mechanism
nes and agile paths tailored to business and citizen. of coordination of activities and an adequate mo-
nitoring system will be deployed, taking care to as-
•
THE RISK FOR THE WORLD OF WORK sociate with each of the strategic actions a specific
Despite the numerous sector studies conducted in indicator and target for achieving results.
recent years, there is no common vision of the im-
pact that Artificial Intelligence systems will have on
the world of work. Catastrophic scenarios imagined
over the long term are probably not reliable, while
more plausible are, in the medium term, the scena-
rios in which new skills and professionalism will re-
place the existing ones. A strategy that pushes the
adoption of Artificial Intelligence systems will ob-
viously accelerate this (inevitable) process of tran-
sformation. Therefore, this process must be guided
and regulated, foreseeing—in its strategic actions
of greater impact—the due attention to human ca-
pital and people. Crucial will therefore be the ini-
tiatives of the strategic area of Training, and more
specifically the paths of upskilling and reskilling,
paying great attention to preserving and improving
the quality of work downstream of the adoption
of AI systems and the repositioning of personnel.
•
THE RISK OF THE DIGITAL DIVIDE
Italy is still characterized by an insufficient level of
digitalization and digital skills, both in the public
and private sectors, but particularly in the national
social fabric, with also evident territorial heteroge-
neities between regions and cities. An ambitious
program of innovation on Artificial Intelligence, if
not well guided and directed, could lead to the ad-
verse effect of increasing these gaps and these he-
12
STRATEGY DESIGN
Infrastructure and Coordination between academia, enterprises, and Public Administra-
tion), a defining element of the strategy is the setup
The overall vision of the strategy outlined thus far is of an “enabling” strategic actions context, which defi-
very ambitious. Achieving the strategic objectives set nes the framework within which the specific initiatives
out for each of the four macro-areas (Research, Public must be deployed across the different macro-areas.
Administration, Enterprises, Training) will require con- These enabling strategic actions are grouped into two
siderable organizational effort and, above all, a wise different types (infrastructural and for the implemen-
and targeted coordination action, both within each in- tation, coordination, and monitoring of the strategy) as
dividual area and across the different areas. To avoid synthetically represented in the following diagram.
tackling individual goals while losing sight of the overall
logic that links the various areas of interest (and the-
refore, also to establish common good practices and
promote a fruitful exchange of knowledge and skills
IMPLEMENTATION, COORDINATION, AND MONITORING
Strategy for
Strategy for Strategy for Strategy for
PUBLIC
RESEARCH ENTERPRISES TRAINING
ADMINISTRATION
INFRASTRUCTURES
The necessity for actions linked to infrastructure ves but also in the productive contexts of enterprises
enhancement is quite evident in an application con- and Public Administration. The creation of a “registry”
text that heavily depends on the availability of sub- of data and models will be a prominent element of the
stantial computing resources dedicated to analyzing strategy (indeed an enabling factor) that over time can
vast amounts of data. Indeed, from one perspective, foster standardization practices and can accelerate the
the infrastructural domain involves the need to conti- development times of solutions, further fueled by data
nue investing in “physical” infrastructures that enable and models that best characterize the distinctive traits
the development of increasingly advanced Artificial In- of our country and thus better reflect our peculiarities
telligence solutions, maintaining and improving com- and needs.
petitiveness on an international level. Moreover, it is
essential today to recognize that data and information Building on the enabling infrastructural actions, the
repositories on which AI systems can be trained them- possibility of achieving the strategic objectives outlined
selves represent an indispensable infrastructure in the in Research, Public Administration, Enterprises, and
development of these new technologies, a new infra- Training will then depend on the ability to effectively
structural dimension that we must increasingly focus implement various initiatives. On one hand, it will be
on. To materialize its ambitious strategic vision, Italy essential to define a framework of financial resources
must therefore invest in promoting a major initiative that makes planning sustainable, through the establi-
of sharing and reusing datasets (and also models) ac- shment of a fund that can also be fed by any revenues
quired in specific projects and application contexts, not from the actions themselves; on the other hand, it will
only within the scope of foundational research initiati- be necessary to define an entity that will take on the
13
responsibility not only for managing this fund but also the infrastructural elements outlined above, naturally
for implementing the various strategic actions, with the serve as the reference for monitoring the progress of
aim of promoting synergies among the different actors the strategy implementation, aimed at continuous im-
of the innovation ecosystem that revolves around Arti- provement, and manage the budget for the enabling
ficial Intelligence. This entity will also need to oversee actions.
Map of Strategic Actions
IMPLEMENTATION, COORDINATION, AND MONITORING
A.3 | FOUNDATION FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
Strategy for Strategy for Strategy for Strategy for
RESEARCH PUBLIC ENTERPRISES TRAINING
ADMINISTRATION
R.1 | Consolidation of PA.1 | Guidelines to I.1 | Facilitators for AI in F.1 | Pathways to AI
the Italian research promote AI SMEs introduction in
ecosystem adoption schools
I.2 | Support for the
R.2 | Retaining and PA.2 | Procurement development and F.2 | Mobility as a tool for
attracting talent guidelines adoption of AI AI training
solutions
R.3 | Design of Italian F.3 | Widespread
PA.3 | Guidelines for the
Large Molecule I.3 | Laboratories for AI teaching in
development of AI
Manufacturers the development university degree
applications
(LMM) of AI applications in courses
industrial contexts
R.4 | Interdisciplinary PA.4 | Simplification F.4 | Strengthening of the
projects for social for citizens and I.4 | Development of AI national PhD in AI
welfare businesses startups
F.5 | Upskilling and
R.5 | Foundational and PA.5 | Efficiency I.5 | Services for ICT reskilling programs
blue-sky research improvement of companies on AI for enterprises and
for next-generation the PA PA
AI
PA.6 | AI in schools for F.6 | Education on the
R.6 | Strengthening the PA use of AI tools
of international
collaborations F.7 | ITS courses focused
on AI
INFRASTRUCTURES
A.1 | NATIONAL KNOWLEDGE ASSETS: DATASETS AND A.2 | NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURES FOR ARTIFICIAL
MODELS INTELLIGENCE
14
Enabling Strategic Actions
A.1 | NATIONAL KNOWLEDGE ASSETS: DATASETS AND A.2 | NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURES FOR ARTIFICIAL
MODELSI INTELLIGENCE
Description Description
To systematize knowledge acquired in specific projects The increasing use of solutions based on Artificial In-
and enable the reuse of AI artifacts, a program will be telligence will lead, in the medium term, to a risk of
implemented to define a registry of datasets and mo- congestion of the current digital communication infra-
dels, constructed according to principles of transpa- structures, considering the significant increase in data
rency and fairness, ethically reliable by design, and reu- traffic generated by the most modern technological
sable to accelerate solutions for Italian companies. The solutions. It will therefore be necessary to plan speci-
definition of the project will be articulated according to fic strategic actions for the improvement and expan-
three main directions: (i) methodological, to define a sion of the current network infrastructure, especially in
national protocol to ensure that datasets are trustwor- areas with high traffic density. Numerous actions can
thy-by-design and trustworthy-by-default both legally be deployed. The development of intelligent networks
and engineering-wise, defining approaches for mitiga- that can dynamically adapt to demand in real time will
ting risks (in terms of ethics and cybersecurity); (ii) ope- be promoted.
rational, to implement and make available a platform
that integrates modern MLops approaches and data Collaboration between the public and private sectors
preparation; (iii) applicative, in which the platform will will be encouraged to ensure that network operators
be specialized on specific national interest application and technology companies work together to address
areas. All projects funded within the national strategy challenges related to Internet congestion; this part-
or otherwise receiving public funding will be required nership will include incentives for investments in infra-
to report the datasets used and the models produced structure, as well as joint research and development
in the registry, according to guidelines that will define programs for innovative solutions. There will be sup-
access levels and reuse modalities. port for the implementation of interoperable solutions,
reducing data load and mitigating congestion, and in-
The registry will also be used in specific verticaliza- vesting in the standardization of network solutions for
tion initiatives on Enterprises and Public Administra- AI technologies. Finally, awareness and education on
tion. The verticalization on Enterprises will focus on responsible AI management will be promoted, encou-
identifying specific productive sectors, promoting not raging companies to implement practices that reduce
only the sharing of real data but also the definition of the impact on the network, such as algorithm optimiza-
approaches to the generation of synthetic datasets tion, data compression, and the use of edge computing
usable in specific application contexts. In this area, it technologies.
will be crucial to promote the use of Privacy-Enhancing
Technologies (PET), i.e., digital solutions that allow col-
lecting, processing, analyzing, and sharing information
A.3 | FOUNDATION FOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
while protecting data confidentiality and privacy, thus
encouraging participation; such technologies will also
be promoted through appropriate training and awa- Description
reness initiatives aimed at creating a culture of data To effectively pursue the objectives defined in the stra-
sharing based on trust and privacy protection. As for tegy, it will be essential to define an entity responsible
Public Administration, the goal will be to promote the for the implementation, coordination, and monitoring
reuse of solutions developed with public funding and of individual initiatives. As far as implementation is
to encourage the standardization of procedures and concerned, it will obviously be necessary to plan the
platforms. Starting from the development of local establishment of a fund that makes the strategic actions
ecosystems of skills, with a bottom-up process, the so- sustainable and that, in a prospective key, can also be
lutions can indeed be disseminated on a national scale, fed by revenues (of various kinds) from the actions
fostering the involvement of other local communities themselves. The entity can therefore well characterize
also dimensionally different, responding to their ne- itself as a Foundation which, given its centrality in the
eds, leveraging their availability and creativity to build overall innovation ecosystem of innovation, can be pla-
a solution tailored to them. The issues to be addressed ced under the direct control of the Presidency of the
obviously include the heterogeneity of projects, which Council of Ministers. The Foundation will first take care
are linked to local contingencies and varying levels of to manage and maintain the registry of AI solutions (as
scalability. The creation of the registry will also enable per Action A.1), also enhancing it with an appropriate
the activation of cataloging procedures for the various business model that consolidates its sustainability.
databases existing within the Public Administration,
annotating them with quality and confidentiality fac-
tors that are also useful for defining their use outside
the organization that generated the data.
15
In particular, it is appropriate to anticipate forms of barriers to the adoption of these technologies, thus
fair compensation for the rights holders of data and stimulating demand; (iii) defining criteria for the certi-
content when these are used within the registry for fication of digital and AI skills of companies; (iv) pro-
profit-making purposes. Furthermore, the Foundation ducing an annual forecasting document that outlines
will serve as the central node of a complex network of prospective elements on the use of AI in Enterprises
actors, promoting the development and adoption of and Public Administration; (v) defining and encoura-
Artificial Intelligence systems across various strategic ging strategic initiatives for the industrial application
macro-areas, particularly in Enterprises and Public Ad- of AI; (vi) collecting the needs of Enterprises in diffe-
ministration. Indeed, it is essential to recognize that AI rent sectors for various technologies; (vii) coordinating
policies will be, in the medium term, a kind of moving the evaluation of projects for access to specific funding
target: the underlying technological evolution requires for SMEs and startups proposed within the national
continuous adaptation and/or revision of AI develop- strategy; (viii) providing support for regulatory com-
ment trajectories and their application to support the pliance through guidelines and best practices. Finally,
country’s competitiveness. In this perspective, the co- the Foundation will have responsibility for the entire
ordination of the Foundation will be characterized by strategy monitoring process, constantly assessing the
activities aimed at: (i) identifying a development agen- progress of individual actions and the achievement of
da in terms of skills, tools, processes, and products, in targets.
close synergy with all ecosystem actors; (ii) defining
and promoting awareness initiatives to make stakehol-
ders—especially SMEs—aware of the business oppor-
tunities created by AI, whose lack is one of the main
16
STRATEGY FOR RESEARCH
Invest in foundational scientific research on AI
Objectives
Enhance applied AI research
R.1 | Consolidation of the Italian Research Ecosystem
R.2 | Retain and Attract Talent
R.3 | Design of Italian Large Molecule Manufacturers
Strategic
Actions
R.4 | Interdisciplinary Projects for Social Welfare
R.5 | Foundational and Blue-Sky Research for Next-Generation AI
R.6 | Enhancement of International Collaborations
creation of synergies should be favored both with en-
Overview
terprises using technologies and with those operating
A fundamental goal of scientific research is to improve in the ICT world enabling new AI solutions, in order to
the quality of life of people and the social context in create a strong national ecosystem that is also fertile
which they live. In the near future, Artificial Intelligen- ground for the development of innovative startups.
ce (AI) will offer increasingly effective tools and tech-
niques to achieve this goal, thanks in part to the great Objectives
dynamism and speed with which research results can
•
nowadays be transformed into services and products Invest in foundational scientific research on
useful to individuals, society, and the production wor- AI, consolidating existing initiatives such as the Ex-
ld. In this scenario of continuous revolution, Italy must tended Partnership on AI; promote collaboration
aim to maintain and intensify its competitiveness in among different skills, funding interdisciplinary
research on an international level. This involves both projects; open the field to the exploration of highly
academic positioning and the capacity for technology ambitious and broad-spectrum (blue-sky) projects;
transfer, so that foundational research can become a support an extraordinary plan to retain and attract
driving force for the creation of technologies directly talents to sustain competitiveness in the internatio-
applicable to the country’s innovation.
nal context.
Research in the field of AI necessarily transcends natio- •
Enhance applied AI research through initiatives
nal boundaries and cannot be exempt from large-scale
co-designed by public-private partnerships, inclu-
cooperation: therefore, actions that support the natio-
ding dedicated laboratories involving enterprises,
nal ecosystem in a context of international and mainly
universities, and research centers, focusing on con-
European relations are necessary, promoting mobility,
texts of greatest economic and social value for Italy
the return of Italian talents from abroad, and the at-
and the greatest impact on citizen welfare.
tractiveness of Italian universities and research centers
for foreign talents. Italian research must, therefore,
be supported with investments comparable to those
of the international landscape, focusing both on the
continual evolution of foundational AI research and
high-risk, long-term blue-sky research, and on resear-
ch that emphasizes sustainability in ecological, social,
ethical, and legal terms typical of Italy and Europe, as
well as on multidisciplinary and applied research di-
rectly related to enterprises.
This last area is particularly relevant considering the
risk that Italy could lose global competitiveness in its
productive excellences if not effectively supported by
technologies capable of standing up to stronger eco-
nomies and more innovative contexts. To this end, the
17
Strategic Actions
R.1 | CONSOLIDATION OF THE ITALIAN RESEARCH ECOSYSTEM
The Italian AI research ecosystem is extremely vibrant, dynamic, and of recognized
international value, but also widely distributed across many universities and national research
centers. Funding from the PNRR has allowed the creation of the FAIR Foundation, which has
developed a multi-choral ecosystem starting from a core group of 15 universities, accredited
AI research entities (CNR, IIT, FBK), centers of significant scientific importance (INFN), and large
local enterprises, extended through the presence of the National Inter-University Consortium
for Computer Science (through the AIIS Lab) to more than 50 research centers covering
the entire national territory. The ecosystem will also strengthen over the years through
cascading funding, with the aim of maximum inclusivity of Italian excellences and enterprises.
This represents an investment in an important ecosystem, which needs to be supported
Description and further enhanced, also by carefully analyzing any issues and potentially remodeling or
redesigning the current organization. It will therefore be essential for the development of
research to further invest in promoting the initiative, also considering the extension of the
partnership. It will be particularly essential to involve the productive and entrepreneurial
fabric in the partnership, characterizing the initiative as a public-private ecosystem, a place of
meeting and natural exchange of skills and knowledge between universities, research centers,
ICT companies developing AI systems, and those that in their specific activities can benefit
from technological innovations. Additionally, there may be a focus on developing territorial or
thematic verticalizations and creating stable synergies with the Public Administration through
targeted research activities “on public commission,” activities of benchmarking, and validation
of solutions, both from a technological and ethical-legal standpoint.
R.2 | RETAIN AND ATTRACT TALENT
Current funding from the PNRR has allowed for an increase, sometimes significant, in the
number of researchers dedicated to Artificial Intelligence, both in academia and in public
research entities. Once the impetus of the PNRR is exhausted, the current setup will likely
be unsustainable in the dynamics of “normal” funding, leading to the exit from the research
ecosystem of those talents who were trained thanks to the PNRR and who today hold fixed-
term positions. To maintain a high level of competitiveness in research, an extraordinary
plan for hiring in universities, research entities, and enterprises, at various levels, will be
necessary. There will be a need for an extraordinary plan for Tenure Track researchers, PA
and PO (and equivalent EPR positions) on foundational and applied topics related to AI, which
will allow: (i) to absorb the most excellent among the many RTDa/TD (trained thanks to PNRR
Description
initiatives and not only); (ii) to respond to new training and research needs that will emerge
in the coming years; (iii) to retain and attract foreign talents. In particular, attracting foreign
talents can help create a driving effect on the entire community, stimulating the formation
of local skills and facilitating the continuous exchange of knowledge in the field of Artificial
Intelligence; it will therefore be important to promote specific incentives for the “brain gain”
in AI, also in line with European policies (for example, Germany has indicated funding of
500 million euros just in 2024 to cover 150 new professorship positions in AI). In addition to
positions specifically dedicated to AI, it will be important to define positions for researchers in
multidisciplinary areas, as well as to encourage enterprises to hire researchers trained on AI
within the initiatives promoted by the PNRR in the last two years.
18
R.3 | DESIGN OF ITALIAN LARGE MOLECULE MODELS (LMM)
The development of Foundation Models is increasingly a privilege of large private research
centers, with investments often on a scale that is unattainable for the Italian ecosystem.
However, Italy cannot fall behind in this important area of technological competition and must
become competitive in Europe, where Germany and Great Britain stand out with investments
of 500 million euros and 100 million euros respectively (in this case for “safe” foundational
models). Thus, competitive programs must be deployed for funding, also in synergy with private
entities, collaborative research projects for the creation of Large Language Models (LMM)
and Large Multimodal Models (LLM) based on Italian and multilingual systems. Development
should focus on specific applications contextualized in significant application domains for
our country, for example in Public Administration or in the health sector, that fully comply
with European values and regulations in terms of: (i) transparency of training data, to ensure
compliance with non-discrimination laws, privacy (GDPR), human rights protection, providing
reliable information on the sources from which content is generated; (ii) protection against
Description
generated false content (hallucinations); (iii) protection of the rights of authors and creators
whose works are used in the training data; (iv) tracking mechanisms for content generated by
AI (such as watermarking); (v) environmental sustainability, aiming at innovative techniques
to reduce the size of models (also with approaches of incremental and federated learning);
(vi) assessment of socio-economic impacts in the medium and long term. The program could
be organized in phases, with a monitoring entity identifying projects to admit to subsequent
phases based on the results achieved.
Considering the complexity and the very nature of LMM systems, each initiative must be
supervised by an Ethics Committee that approves the general guidelines and implementation
methodologies. In particular, the Committee will take care to highlight the risks inherent to
specific initiatives, guiding project choices towards approaches that ensure the safety and
reliability of the solutions.
R.4 | SYNERGIES: INTERDISCIPLINARY PROJECTS FOR SOCIAL WELLBEING
To foster interdisciplinary research related to AI, competitive initiatives should be planned
for medium-small synergistic research projects (from 2 to 5 partners), aiming at ambitious
foundational scientific advancements in various domains where the role of AI is fundamental
or in which AI itself represents the object of research, but for which the coordination of
multidisciplinary skills is essential. The evaluation procedure will be based on criteria of
“excellence, interdisciplinarity, and originality,” inspired by the Synergy Grants of the European
Research Council (ERC). The areas of application aimed at using AI for social wellbeing (outlined
in the “Strategy Principles” section) should be primarily considered.
Description
Some specific application domains, by way of example, involve projects for: landscape
protection, sea or environmental protection; research on new challenges created by AI on
issues such as copyright, deepfakes, online disinformation, and responsibility; research
on ethics and AI; studying the socio-economic impacts of AI on issues such as economic
inequality, social discrimination, and monopolies; the application of machine learning in
other disciplines (with AI4Science projects); national and personal security; optimization of
environmental and energy resources; pilot projects of digital/AI and social systems to guide
the digital transformation centered on people and society enabled by AI; solutions to support
the digitalized intellectual and cultural heritage (digital humanities).
19
R.5 | AI GRAND CHALLENGE: FOUNDATIONAL AND BLUE-SKY RESEARCH FOR NEXT-GENERATION AI
In order to continue supporting foundational research activities, in line with what is currently
being developed under the FAIR project, a research program inspired by the structure of
North American research challenges should be launched, focused on foundational research
with the potential to create a generational leap at a technological-scientific level and generate
disruptive innovation. The program should have a bottom-up nature, foreseeing the selection
Description
of project ideas through two phases. In the first phase, researchers will be able to propose
themes for the challenges. The ideas will be collected and selected: the proponents of the
selected themes will contribute to the management of the subsequent phase, in which
proposals consistent with the themes will be gathered and the winning proposals will be
selected. The proposals will be formulated by consortia of small size.
R.6 | ENHANCEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL COLLABORATIONS
To encourage high-quality research in Italy, it is essential to promote international collaboration.
To this end, research programs will be funded to: (i) define new AI tools and solutions; (ii)
define common methods for effective adoption of AI (especially for transnational social
challenges, and for markets where companies are international, or even though national,
strongly focus on foreign markets); (iii) develop legal-administrative tools for the protection
of solutions; (iv) design and realize advanced computer platforms capable of systematically
Description and autonomously detecting and analyzing the evolution of cyber threats and the “anomalies”
present in network traffic that may represent an alert for the conduct of an imminent attack,
with the ability to promptly activate proactive actions to mitigate or repel recognized threats.
The competitive research programs, limited to a duration of 2 years, will aim to promote joint
research with at least one other European or Extra-European nation, foreseeing exchanges of
incoming and outgoing researchers and the creation of documentation that may become an
international reference and in the institutional relations of the involved countries.
20
STRATEGY FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Support administrative processes
Objectives
Facilitate the use of PA services
PA.1 | Guidelines for promoting the adoption of AI
PA.2 | Procurement guidelines
PA.3 | Guidelines for the development of AI applications
Strategic
Actions
PA.4 | Simplification for citizens and businesses
PA.5 | Efficiency of Public Administration
PA.6 | AI in schools for Public Administration
Overview and risks. Artificial Intelligence is increasingly showing
us its enormous potential. How to adapt our operations
Artificial Intelligence can become a central factor in the to the opportunities AI offers remains the fundamental
digital transformation of Public Administration, due to question to which, in a historical moment dense with often
its potential to enhance both the efficiency of internal unpredictable socio-economic changes and events, Public
operations and the delivery of services more closely aligned Administration must respond. In this direction, besides
with the needs of citizens. In recent years, various sector- more technical actions, it will be essential to implement
specific initiatives have started to integrate AI into Public “supportive” actions—with careful and authoritative
Administration. What is now required is a structured and direction—that, taking into account skills and knowledge
systematic approach that supports all elements contributing not yet widely spread in Public Administration, can promote
to effective public administration functioning. In particular, a fruitful use of AI and channel procurement actions and
it will be crucial to avoid fragmentation of solutions: on development of solutions, enhancing their reuse and sharing
one hand, by developing specific national interest projects of good practices.
that enable new processes of action and interaction for the
Public Administration, deserving large-scale development;
Objectives
on the other hand, by defining frameworks within which
individual entities and administrations can autonomously • Support administrative processes through AI te-
make their innovation choices, while still positioning chnologies, increasing efficiency and optimizing the
themselves as a collective entity capable of implementing AI management of public resources; fund some natio-
solutions and applications that are interoperable and meet nal-scale pilot projects; support the initiatives of indi-
precise functional standards. vidual administrations, framed as a collective entity
capable of realizing AI solutions and applications, de-
In developing the strategy for Public Administration, it fined in accordance with precise interoperability gui-
will therefore be necessary to develop a coherent set of delines that ensure adequate functional standards.
actions, with a multidisciplinary approach, to fully exploit
the opportunities offered by new technologies based on • Facilitate the utilization of Public Administra-
Artificial Intelligence with the aim of creating a virtuous tion services by citizens and businesses through
cycle among: (i) quality, privacy, security, and proper data AI solutions and technologies, ensuring usability,
management functional to the use of AI techniques; (ii) the privacy, and process transparency; promote the te-
development of AI-based technologies and software tools chnological neutrality of software and PA platforms
for interoperability, source traceability, credibility, accuracy, to offer alternatives to the exclusive use of proprie-
and relevance, in order to build trust in decision-making tary solutions.
tools that leverage what is available on digital platforms;
(iii) the training of specific skills for Public Administration
personnel on AI technologies and tools in compliance with
laws, regulations, and best practices and experiences; (iv)
systematic monitoring and improvement, with statistical
quality measures, of service performance in development
and operation; (v) support for strategic decision-making
processes and regular performance evaluation of AI tools;
(vi) commitment against biases and intellectual property
violations; (vii) development of tools to support citizens,
carefully assessing their enabling capabilities, benefits,
21
Strategic Actions
PA.1 | GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING THE ADOPTION OF AI IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Public Administration, which manages information and services for citizens and communities,
can greatly benefit from the innovations brought by AI. However, for this transformative
lever to be truly deployed, it is necessary that not only adequate competencies are widely
disseminated, but also a full awareness of the technological potential of Artificial Intelligence,
with particular attention to the possible risks arising from its use and the significant
opportunities it can provide. A crucial first step will involve systematically guiding the Public
Administration in navigating through a complex landscape, via guidelines that highlight the
potential and use of AI platforms, also through specific case studies on the use of Artificial
Intelligence, while promoting knowledge of “best practices.”
Description
In this regard, it will be particularly important to develop specific vertical analyses, such as
assessing the impact of AI techniques in the legal field or other areas of specific interest to
Public Administration. The guidelines will also define the methodological steps to be deployed
to define innovative project activities in Public Administration where AI tools are present, both
in relation to technological issues (technologies, skills, risks) and in relation to the definition of
ethical and regulatory frameworks. Furthermore, these guidelines will categorize the different
applications into homogeneous classes, characterizing their minimum functional standards
and interoperability requirements, thus ensuring the possibility of deploying AI solutions and
applications that place each Italian citizen in a relationship with their local authority entirely
similar to that of other citizens in other cities and regions of the national territory.
PA.2 | GUIDELINES FOR PROCUREMENT IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
A necessary condition for selecting the most appropriate technical tools and standards for the
needs of Public Administration, in addition to a solid domain knowledge, is the understanding
of the available IT products and services, along with an awareness of the risks of use and the
opportunities offered. Navigating such a varied and dynamic world, however, is not simple.
It will therefore be essential to define appropriate guidelines that integrate what is already
Description currently provided for in the ICT field but with a specific focus on Artificial Intelligence. These
guidelines must, in particular, guide Public Administrations towards procurement activities of
solutions — within the framework of tender procedures or specific framework agreements
— that not only respond well to specific functional needs but also ensure adequate safety
levels and full compliance with regulatory provisions and general guidelines on the adoption
of Artificial Intelligence in Public Administration.
22
PA.3 | GUIDELINES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AI APPLICATIONS IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Consistent with the general objectives of the national strategy, Public Administration must
not only acquire skills in procuring solutions already available on the market, but also develop
the ability to actively engage in developing its own solutions. This is a highly elaborate
process, which must initially be based on the definition of specific guidelines directed towards
the use of platforms developed in Italy and aimed at the implementation of projects that
promote: (i) full compliance with national and European Union regulations in terms of risk
Description
class management and related compliance, with particular reference to the protection of
personal data; (ii) awareness of the requirements dictated by national strategies and related
to the development of technologies in highly critical sectors such as energy, defense, and
intelligence; (iii) the definition of initiatives aimed at training personnel that can elevate the
level of user competencies on advanced technological solutions, focused on the development
of certifiable, scalable, and nationally shareable processes.
PA.4 | SIMPLIFICATION FOR CITIZENS AND BUSINESSES
Substantial investments will need to be directed into the design and implementation of
tools and interaction methodologies that can facilitate citizens’ access to services offered by
Public Administration. These initiatives can be defined in collaboration with private partners,
academia, and research centers, and are characterized by a national scope. Project activities
may be oriented towards the use of various technologies, such as ontological mechanisms for
integrating information sources, Multimodal Foundation Models, and deep learning systems,
defining specific use cases of broad interest, from the automatic filling of forms for essential
services to robotic process automation in specific areas. The activities must also include
specific assessments of the reliability of the systems, as well as a precise planning of their
Description adoption methods on a large scale.
These can also be articulated in two phases, initially foreseeing the development of pilots
limited to specific administrative system contexts which can then be extended on a large
scale considering the feedback received. In any case, the functional specifications and needs
must be clearly formalized by Public Administration, while the solutions that best manage
these specifics should be identified – through specific tenders – either among those already
available on the market or among those that can be developed ad hoc, also through the
involvement of controlled or participated companies. Among the application areas, those of
social interest defined in the “Strategy Principles” section may be primarily considered.
23
PA.5 | EFFICIENCY ENHANCEMENT OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Artificial Intelligence technologies can also play a crucial role in streamlining the internal
processes of Public Administration. Similar to what is planned for Action PA.4, it will involve
defining initiatives for the development and/or adoption of AI systems (through public calls),
starting with the mapping of already implemented systems and their offered services. It will
be the responsibility of the Public Administration to identify specific areas of intervention,
defining the policies to be adopted and assessing the impact and possible risks of the systems.
There are numerous areas of potential interest. On the strictly administrative front, systems
Description
could be defined, for example, for verifying the compliance of acts and administrative decisions
with current laws, procedures, and regulations, but especially systems capable of providing
automated feedback and recommendations, particularly in the drafting of acts by officials
and public managers. Similarly, platforms for the digitalization and automatic annotation
of documents or support systems for the Responsible Units of Programs (RUP) for the
management and monitoring of Public Contracts could significantly streamline the processes
of the PA. All systems must, however, have a national scope and define an infrastructure and
operational activity that is actively present across the entire territory.
PA.6 | AI IN SCHOOLS FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
To support the innovation processes of Public Administration, it will be necessary to
promote specific upskilling paths that allow for the expansion of skills and knowledge of the
currently serving staff. To this end, a specific Department dedicated to Artificial Intelligence
must be established within the National School of Administration, including the activation
of postgraduate courses of excellence for Public Administration employees, with potential
Description
differentiation based on the level and content relative to the roles of the individuals involved.
This initiative may also serve as a preparatory step for launching future innovation actions
in Public Administration, including through projects in collaboration with universities and
centers. Similar initiatives should be planned in all training schools for Public Administration,
including those of local entities.
24
STRATEGY FOR ENTERPRISES
Capture the innovation needs of Italian businesses
Objectives
Support the Italian ICT sector
I.1 | Facilitators for AI in SMEs
I.2 | Support for the development and adoption of AI solutions
Strategic
I.3 | Labs for the development of AI applications in industrial contexts
Actions
I.4 | Development of startups in the AI field
I.5 | Services for ICT companies on AI
med at enhancing their distinctive traits.
Overview
The system of Italian enterprises is characterized by a In this sense, the design of an AI strategy in Italy must
vision strongly oriented towards process and product be strongly anchored to the specificities of our so-
excellence. Italy is a major industrial country with a cio-technical system and leverage the ongoing initiati-
strong manufacturing vocation, historically at the fo- ves of technology transfer to SMEs and their collabora-
refront of innovation and automation. Embracing the tion with large enterprises, universities, and research
Artificial Intelligence revolution thus represents a na- bodies. To realize this vision, the national strategy in-
tural development path for our country’s productive cludes actions for coordination, strengthening of the AI
and entrepreneurial system. In this journey, it will be ecosystem among SMEs also with specifically dedica-
necessary to articulate a strategic project that operates ted funds, and initiatives to strengthen the ICT system
on a dual level of action. On one hand, the focus should and for the creation of innovative startups.
be on enhancing the role of Italian ICT companies as
enablers for the development of new AI solutions and Objectives
applications, increasing their ability to develop project
initiatives, promoting their capacity to synergize with • Capture the innovation needs of Italian enter-
universities and research centers, and facilitating the prises, financing and supporting an AI-centered
definition of networks of relationships within the na- ecosystem that can qualify a perspective where
tional context that can create levels of expertise and excellence is enhanced by technological solutions
critical mass, in specific technological and application aimed at enhancing their distinctive traits.
areas, to emerge internationally.
•
Support the Italian ICT sector, promoting its
Parallel to the actions aimed at the ICT world, the stra- enabling role for the definition of new AI applica-
tegy for businesses must also address the world that tions, also with initiatives that respond to precise
does not directly operate in the development of te- demands for innovation in the productive fabric;
chnological solutions but, conversely, receives signifi- increase the possibilities to intercept funding for
cant stimuli for the innovation of its value chain from developing new AI project initiatives; support and
this world. Digital transformation has, for some years enhance the AI startup ecosystem, attracting public
now, placed entrepreneurs and managers in front of and private capital.
the need to reorient strategies towards a centrality of
data and AI for business competitiveness, also in view
of future challenges on environmental sustainability.
In this framework, it will become increasingly impor-
tant to assert the need for a new operational business
approach and a new centrality – alongside production
– concerning the transformation of data into insights,
actions, and decisions, and the enabling of new proces-
ses through the use of AI systems, including generative
ones. In defining strategies consistent with this vision,
it will also be necessary to take into account the pecu-
liarities of the Italian productive fabric, designing and
affirming an AI-driven innovation ecosystem that can
qualify a perspective in which the excellence of Italian
enterprises is strengthened by innovative solutions ai-
25
Strategic Actions
I.1 | AI FACILITATORS FOR SMES
To fully leverage the enormous potential of Artificial Intelligence within the productive
and entrepreneurial context, a pervasive activity of promoting solutions and developing
applications that are concretely usable in specific verticals such as automation, agri-food,
furniture, clothing, tourism, chemical and pharmaceutical sectors, and aerospace will be
necessary. To this end, an ecosystem of facilitators will be defined, rooted in the territory,
under the direct control of the Foundation for Artificial Intelligence which manages the
implementation, coordination, and monitoring, and in strong synergy with all the current
actors of the innovation ecosystem, and other relevant foundations in the sector, such as
FAIR, Chips.IT, and AI4Industry. Each facilitator will be able to collaborate with universities and
research centers and will cover one or more productive supply chains, becoming a natural
meeting point between ICT companies that offer solutions for innovation and the enterprises
that benefit from such technologies.
Description The facilitators will therefore be characterized as: (i) an entity that provides innovation
services based on AI, such as the assessment of the technological maturity of companies
and the characterization of the needs/opportunities for innovation; (ii) an enabler of usable
solutions, also in terms of interoperability, for companies in the supply chain; in particular,
Italian ICT companies will be involved to develop AI solutions that bring to common factor
the needs shared by at least an entire supply chain, then delegating to individual entities any
verticalizations and further customizations; (iii) a vehicle through which to collect and codify
the characteristic data of the arts and crafts distinctive of the verticals, using them for the
training of Artificial Intelligence solutions and feeding the National Knowledge Heritage (Action
A.1); (iv) an entity that raises awareness and promotes the training of human resources; (v) a
certifier of digital and AI competences within companies; (vi) a creator of synergies between
large enterprises, market-leading companies (tier 1) and SMEs, fostering technology transfer;
(vii) an entity that supports the development of start-ups (also through synergies with existing
incubators) and facilitates their interconnection with the system of enterprises using AI.
I.2 | SUPPORT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND ADOPTION OF AI SOLUTIONS
An important element in supporting the development of the Artificial Intelligence ecosystem
in Italy will be the creation of a dedicated pool of financial resources to support specific
project initiatives. This pool will be allocated to finance projects both by companies operating
in the ICT sector aimed at developing new AI solutions, and by non-ICT companies wishing to
innovate their production processes by adopting AI solutions. The projects can be promoted
Description
by networks of companies or individual companies and will be facilitated with a variety of
systems: conventional finance to support AI investment projects at the individual company
level; corporate venture capital tools with reference, for example, to AI-driven initiatives that
involve supply chains; possible support in terms of private equity; or vouchers to be used for
AI-based innovation support activities in the facilitators mentioned in action I.1.
26
I.3 | LABORATORIES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AI APPLICATIONS IN INDUSTRIAL CONTEXTS
A crucial element for the growth of the productive fabric in Italy is the ability to develop
coordinated projects that facilitate collaboration between enterprises and universities.
Various large enterprises (for example, in manufacturing, energy, or pharmaceutical sectors),
consulting and service companies, as well as business associations, have long developed vertical
research centers in Italy to consolidate their technological know-how and enrich it through
projects with universities and research centers. These initiatives are typically individual and
almost always funded privately or with regional or European funds. In the specific domain of
Artificial Intelligence, the public-private partnership (as evidenced by numerous international
experiences) is essential, not only in the definition of project activities but also in the definition
of research centers where the industrial and academic contributions are equal.
In the realm of AI, university research must be a source of inspiration for new ideas and
experiments. With this in mind, there will be promotion of new initiatives in our country, the
“thematic laboratories in applied AI” that involve a company and one or more universities or
Description public research centers, and the “centers/institutes in applied AI,” which aim to group multiple
companies from the same sector, always in the logic of collaboration with public research
entities. These centers will focus on TRLs more driven towards market applications, and will aim
to: (i) develop exploratory applied research, of interest to companies or the supply chain with
shared management of intellectual property, also in relation to specific financing; (ii) enable
existing solutions in a supply chain context, experimenting with innovative verticalizations that
maintain Italian know-how; (iii) act as a bridge between companies, universities, and the world
of European and international research and development, leveraging academic links especially
in target areas of Italian export; (iv) create synergies between large companies, businesses,
SMEs, and startups; (v) provide support for certification and patenting, in collaboration with
the national research ecosystem (cf. Action R.1) and with competence centers and EDIHs of
a more industrial matrix; (vi) support the training of the next AI experts by funding not only
PhD candidates but also researchers and professors in AI, individuals dedicated to technology
transfer, and, above all, technicians and professionals ready to immediately enter the job
market.
27
I.4 | DEVELOPMENT OF START-UPS IN THE AI SECTOR
In the realm of development and application of Artificial Intelligence technologies, start-ups
are a key element for the overall competitiveness of the productive and entrepreneurial
fabric. However, Italy currently lags behind in Europe in terms of the number of AI start-ups
(0.68 start-ups per million inhabitants, compared to, for example, 2.05 and 1.99 in France
and Germany, respectively). Significant players are already present in Italy with established
expertise in incubation and acceleration, and in gathering investments, both in the private
sector and within the context of significant academic experiences. The numbers mentioned
above, however, highlight the need for further substantial investments in this sector. On
one hand, these initiatives need to be consolidated and supported, with the goal of creating
synergies among them, not only by focusing on funding programs directly aimed at new high-
tech enterprises or on tax relief initiatives, but also by supporting detailed programs that can
guide start-ups through all phases of their development. Of particular importance will be the
promotion of these initiatives in the academic field, where they are configured as university
spin-offs. To this end, the creation of AI-Enterprise labs within universities may be encouraged
(based, for example, on the UK model) which offer a dynamic environment where researchers
Description can work alongside business professionals, benefiting from acceleration programs, financial
support, and specialized consulting. These labs will help in understanding market dynamics
and the needs of the AI industry, thereby helping to transform academic ideas into commercial
solutions. In this context, common practices for the granting of intellectual property licenses
and for the creation of spin-offs themselves should be promoted, particularly in relation to
economic relationships and shareholdings.
On the other hand, the effort will be aimed at fostering the interconnection between start-ups
and the system of enterprises using AI applications, a factor often crucial due to the difficulties
of interaction between the world of innovative enterprises and the incumbents. It will be
important to maintain an integrated and coordinated approach, networking institutional,
private, and academic actors; it will be necessary to build critical mass by identifying a
series of projects capable of acting as a true national catalyst and reference for attracting
investors; public-private partnerships should be promoted, facilitating capitalization actions;
involvement of academically trained talents should be encouraged, fostering joint projects; AI
solutions defined by start-ups should be valued internationally; finally, targeted projects for
the implementation of sandboxes should be incentivized.
I.5 | SERVICES FOR ICT COMPANIES ON AI
The competitiveness of the national industry in the field of Artificial Intelligence will be
strongly influenced by the ability of Italian companies to develop solutions and services within
a highly dynamic European and global regulatory context, where compliance costs constitute
a barrier to market entry. At the community and international levels, individual states have
felt the need to define “regulatory experimentation spaces” for AI (sandboxes) with the aim of
providing a controlled environment that facilitates the development and validation of Artificial
Intelligence solutions.
The AI Act mandates CE marking for high-risk AI systems; and additional certification
requirements are demanded in specific application contexts. Therefore, it is appropriate to
foresee support measures, on one hand, to reduce the burdens of regulatory compliance and
certifications for applications, especially those at high risk, and on the other, to encourage
small and medium enterprises and startups to access sandboxes. These forms of support
could be implemented through funding calls or by providing consulting services. Similarly,
companies must be supported in the recognition of AI systems and in obtaining certification
in specific sectors (e.g., respecting ENAV, ASA, EASA for aerospace), also in light of the new EU
regulations 2023/988 and 2023/1230.
28
TRAINING STRATEGY
Promote widespread university education on AI
Objectives
Implement educational pathways on AI
F.1 | Pathways to Introduce AI at School Level
F.2 | Mobility as a Tool for AI Education
F.3 | Widespread AI Education in University Degree Programs
Strategic
F.4 | Enhancement of the National PhD Program in AI
Actions
F.5 | Upskilling and Reskilling Programs for Businesses and Public Administration
F.6 | Education on the Use of AI Tools
F.7 | ITS Courses Focused on AI
ployment and can also have significant impacts in im-
Overview
proving the very quality of work, allowing for greater
efficiency and productivity, combined with increasingly
Artificial Intelligence (AI) can have a transformative im-
personalized production environments and contexts.
pact on the country’s socio-economic system, benefi-
ting from rapid advances and the vast opportunities
The implementation of effective reskilling and upskil-
offered by generative AI. To harness the benefits of AI,
ling programs across the entire territory is clearly an
however, high professional skills capable of developing
essential prerequisite for this transformation. Howe-
and managing algorithms and AI systems are requi-
ver, all this will still not be enough. In order for AI-deri-
red. Nevertheless, the availability of these skills is far
ved applications to have positive effects on the whole
below demand in Italy, a factor that significantly slows
society, reducing risks, it will be necessary to further
the adoption of these solutions. As a preliminary to
expand the concept of “education” by aiming in Italy
any strategic action, it is therefore essential to address
to implement an AI literacy process that involves scho-
this structural problem by deploying a major plan to
ols, workers, and all citizens, with attention to the most
strengthen, integrate, and disseminate AI knowledge
vulnerable categories. The goal is to prevent a strategy
and related digital skills throughout the education sy-
of growth and investment in AI from fueling proces-
stem: from Higher Technical Institutes (ITS) to univer-
ses of digital knowledge divide that, in the long run,
sities, with particular attention to research doctorates.
would undermine the social and economic cohesion of
Investment in these activities must also be combined
the country. Educating for digital citizenship in the era
with important social issues, such as the need to redu-
of AI is essential, moreover, to bridge the knowledge
ce the gender gap in STEM disciplines and to take into
gap and address the ethical and social concerns that
account the intrinsic multidisciplinarity of the discipli-
this technology can produce. Creating AI literacy edu-
ne, which requires the definition of pathways that are
cational pathways in schools, spreading information
open to true fields and competencies.
through advertising campaigns, and promoting the un-
derstanding of the ethical implications of AI represent
The transformative impact of AI is also leading to chan-
the fundamental steps that can allow for the correct
ges that require actions that go well beyond the tradi-
orientation of the socio-economic fabric as a whole, in
tional scope of education. Increasingly advanced skills
understanding the proper use of AI, fully grasping its
are required in the workplace, and the risk of aliena-
advantages and critically assessing its limitations and
ting those inadequately trained and unable to meet the
risks.
challenges of new technologies becomes more concre-
te. The development of a national strategy for Artificial
Intelligence must be based on the premise that, in this
exceptionally dynamic context, no worker can be left
behind. Italy, both in the public and private sectors,
must deploy a strong incentive program for reskilling
and upskilling pathways to update and retrain workers,
to effectively reintegrate them into the production
cycle, and more generally, to make them conscious
users of new technological tools. Artificial Intelligence
can be an important resource for creating new em-
29
Objectives
• Promote widespread university education on AI • Implement educational pathways on AI in scho-
in response to the increasingly urgent demands ols to prepare new generations for careful and con-
for new skills in society and the workforce, adop- scious use of new technologies; develop targeted
ting a transversal and interdisciplinary approach; dissemination initiatives to raise awareness and
consolidate specialized AI training in pathways ai- engage the Italian society in the AI revolution; fund
med at technical profiles and researchers, such as and support reskilling and upskilling initiatives in all
the National PhD Program on Artificial Intelligence. productive contexts.
Strategic Actions
F.1 | PATHWAYS FOR INTRODUCING AI IN SCHOOLS – STUDENTS AND TEACHERS
The AI revolution demands that the introduction to the discipline begins gradually, starting
from primary and secondary schools. Therefore, training pathways for AI literacy should
primarily target teachers and subsequently students. Regarding students, a useful reference
is the law of August 20, 2019, no. 92, “Introduction of civic education in schools,” which at
Article 5 identifies the core theme of Education for Digital Citizenship. The implementation
of this legislative provision should be directed towards pathways that include the study of
basic AI principles, as well as practical activities aimed at acquiring skills in using available
tools, highlighting their correct use in terms of respecting ethical and social aspects, as well as
privacy and cybersecurity.
To be concretely effective, the pathways aimed at students must be conducted by teachers
who, in turn, must have been previously trained on the theoretical and practical bases
necessary to integrate these concepts into the curriculum. To this end, a broad campaign
should be launched to create ad-hoc training pathways, also involving universities, research
centers, associations (e.g., third sector), and companies that have developed specific expertise
in training initiatives, especially on digital themes. The training courses, delivered on a national
Description
basis both in-person and online or in a hybrid format, must ensure that the educational
material used is widely shared and made available.
This could be achieved through specially structured online repositories or other digital tools
that allow easy and open access to quality educational resources. The sharing of materials will
not only promote transparency and collaboration among educational institutions but should
also contribute to the creation of a common base of knowledge in the teaching of Artificial
Intelligence.
To define clear guidelines and ensure the consistency of educational programs, it will be crucial
to establish coordination with AI technical experts and specialists in pedagogy and sociology.
The coordination structure will help to define learning objectives, identify key concepts and
topics to be addressed, and develop effective and personalized teaching methodologies
based on the types of learners. Collaboration between technicians and experts in the field of
education will ensure that the educational pathways are technically sound and tailored to the
learning needs of students.
30
F.2 | MOBILITY AS A TOOL FOR AI TRAINING
In the dynamic context of Artificial Intelligence, it becomes crucial to define mechanisms that
allow for the exchange of skills and experiences among various institutional actors. Specific
“mobility” programs should be deployed along four main axes:
(1) Internships: Experiences in companies are often crucial for the training of young university
students. To promote this tool, scholarships for interns should be funded for periods of 3-6
months, to be awarded according to the principles of the right to education.
(2) Internship: The exchange of skills between universities and companies is a good international
practice that is difficult to adopt in Italy. To promote its adoption, companies/universities can
benefit from appropriate incentives, while for Public Administrations, internship paths can be
assimilated into mandatory training.
Description
(3) Mobility for Research: In this case, through research grants, periods of mobility and visiting
among different Italian universities and/or public centers and/or Public Administration will
be funded, with the goal of maximizing the transfer of knowledge and acting as a lever to
promote granular and widespread development.
(4) High Apprenticeship: A best practice that should be promoted is the model of Dual High
Education and Research Apprenticeship, used by various regions with ESF funds, which allows
companies to hire young people under 30 years old (students of ITS, universities, masters,
doctorates) benefiting from the tax relief of traditional apprenticeships, allowing the new hires
a period of training. In this case, specific funding for training can promote these interesting
paths.
F.3 | WIDESPREAD AI EDUCATION IN UNIVERSITY DEGREE PROGRAMS
Given the increasing needs of the workforce for personnel with advanced digital competencies
and the current gap in the qualifications of graduates, efforts must be made to further
strengthen the landscape of university degree programs in Artificial Intelligence, also
promoting significant orientation initiatives. On the other hand, one of the risks associated
with the rapid development of techniques and knowledge in the AI field is the limited pool
of users who have access to continuous and updated educational pathways that allow for
Description building the necessary skills and abilities to understand the costs and benefits, critically
evaluate the processes, and creatively use the tools. To mitigate this risk, it will be essential
that teachings on the foundations of Artificial Intelligence be integrated into all university
programs, including non-STEM ones, with content tailored to the objectives of specific
disciplines. Consequently, universities should be incentivized, for example in the context of
the performance-based operating allocation, based on the percentage of study programs in
which such pathways are activated.
31
F.4 | ENHANCEMENT OF THE NATIONAL PHD PROGRAM IN AI
The Doctorate of National Interest in AI (www.PhD-AI.it), initiated in its 37th cycle, serves as
the cornerstone of doctoral training in AI, with approximately 150 enrollments for each of the
three cycles activated so far. This initiative has created an ecosystem that has overcome the
existing fragmentation in doctoral AI training, consolidating the efforts of over 60 universities
and research entities. The first two cycles were funded with specific grants from the Ministry
of University and Research (MUR), and primarily by the National Recovery and Resilience Plan
(PNRR) for the third cycle.
To ensure the continuation of this strategic doctoral training opportunity, it will be necessary
to consistently support the 5 doctorate programs beyond the first three cycles, through the
(co)-financing of at least 40 scholarships per year for each (also promoting the expansion
Description
of the current partnership). This approach aims to fulfill the requirements of DM 226/21 on
Doctorates of National Interest and to allow multi-year planning, avoiding competition with
local university doctorates, in line with Article 11 of DM 226/21: “The Ministry promotes the
activation of national interest doctorates and provides for their co-financing modalities.”
Regarding the educational activities, the PhD-AI.it program initially benefited from a limited
budget for activities promoted by the Coordination Committee only in the first two years,
under the initial MUR/CNR funding. Therefore, it will be necessary to sustain the coordinated
educational initiatives among the 5 doctorates. This could include, for example, inviting
international scientists to conduct joint courses, organizing doctoral schools at both individual
and national levels, and hosting events to promote and disseminate results.
32
F.5 | UPSKILLING AND RESKILLING PROGRAMS FOR BUSINESSES AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
The increasingly pervasive use of Artificial Intelligence in productive contexts will quickly
transform the dynamics of the workforce. Far from catastrophic scenarios regarding job
prospects, it is now increasingly clear that new technologies represent a significant opportunity.
Digital skills and specific knowledge in the field of Artificial Intelligence already open (and
will continue to open) career paths in the labor market. Yet, forecasts (such as those by the
World Economic Forum) describe a growing phenomenon of misalignment between the
skills required and those possessed by job seekers, resulting in a paradoxical scenario where
Artificial Intelligence could reduce the pool of jobs not because of its automation capabilities,
but because the training system fails to bridge the gap between these two worlds. Therefore,
investing in upskilling and reskilling pathways becomes a defining element of the strategy.
These involve tailoring training and professionalization courses on AI for the requalification
and updating of workers to facilitate their (re)integration into new jobs created by AI
technologies. Special attention will be needed for workers in sectors where AI technologies
have already reached a high degree of maturity and offer prospects for greater impact,
taking particular care to support—by emphasizing motivational aspects—those who might
find it more challenging (e.g., due to their age) to adapt to new scenarios and technological
innovations.
In structuring the training pathways, it will be essential to articulate action plans in relation
to the different roles and functions of workers, primarily focusing on technology users, to
create environments receptive to change and ready to value existing skills and the support
Description that Artificial Intelligence can offer today. Sharing successful experiences developed in the
public and private sectors might be useful. For example, following the model of the “Elements
of AI” initiative promoted by the Department of Digital Transition and made available to all
economic realities of the country through the digital desk of the entrepreneur, developed
by InfoCamere, a video course on AI delivered by top Italian experts in the field could be
implemented and made accessible in the same way.
Reskilling and upskilling pathways should also be aimed at managerial staff. New technologies
profoundly impact organizational aspects and the management of internal processes;
innovating means not only adopting new technologies to meet specific efficiency needs
but also – thanks to the vast potential offered by AI – comprehensively revising the internal
organization to create more stimulating environments tailored to the needs of workers.
Finally, reskilling and upskilling pathways must be dedicated to technicians, both in
businesses and public administration, to update their skill sets with new AI technologies. In
this context, beyond activating dedicated masters and professional pathways, a best practice
to be deployed is that of the industry-specific Academies, implemented by some regions with
FSC funds. The initiative will be structured with the creation of specific consortia, including
training bodies, trade associations, and medium-large companies that, together, are capable
of delivering reskilling and upskilling courses, both for their own workers and for those of
all SMEs involved in their supply chain. The consortia would thus take responsibility for the
design and delivery of training pathways, involving their own facilities and respective human
resources to be employed in training the learners, for educational workshops, and for
publicizing specific training pathways to attract young talents.
33
F.6 | EDUCATION ON THE USE OF AI TOOLS
The pervasiveness of AI necessitates the implementation of awareness-raising activities aimed
at citizens regarding the correct use of new technologies, promoting conscious utilization of
tools and specific digital applications currently available. In this regard, the involvement of a
variety of national “actors” (public administrations, governmental institutions, associations,
foundations, media, etc.) will be essential to enable the widespread dissemination of a digital
culture aimed at conscious use of information technologies, not necessarily confined to AI
alone. Particularly critical will be the collaboration with entities (especially from the third
sector) that possess specific expertise in these types of initiatives.
Description
Initiatives should be implemented on multiple levels: (i) Dedicated content within existing TV or
radio programs; (ii) Informative and ongoing columns in magazines and general newspapers;
(iii) Public service advertisements, with a campaign dedicated to the risks and opportunities
of AI; (iv) Billboard campaigns with emotional messages, dedicated websites and social media,
video clips on social networks; (v) Events to be organized locally, in collaboration with personal
or professional associations; (vi) Public debates and informed social discussion involving
various stakeholders, also supported by platforms. All initiatives will be centrally coordinated
by a technical-scientific committee, which will define the scopes, channels, and content.
F.7 | ITS COURSES FOCUSED ON AI
The Higher Technical Institutes (ITS) are an exceptional tool of Italian “excellence” in terms of
quality education and tertiary professional training, established within a system that has been
consolidated over the years in other European countries as well. ITS offer two-year or three-
year programs for high school graduates, amounting to about 900 hours per year, including
laboratory work and internships with companies, with class sizes of about 30 students. The
objective is to train individuals with high technological and professional technical skills, in
order to systematically contribute to the support of measures for economic development
Description
and the competitiveness of the production system, related to technological areas considered
strategic within the policies of industrial and technological development and ecological
transition.
These training structures must also organize to deliver courses on AI and to introduce the
topic into existing courses, paying particular attention to the involvement of universities and
ICT sector companies specialized in the development of AI-based solutions.
34
MONITORING THE STRATEGY
draft an annual report, which will keep the context
System Monitoring Architecture
analysis up-to-date and provide an overall evaluation
of the strategy’s implementation. Particularly, the mo-
The preparation of any strategic initiative cannot be se-
nitoring will offer an evaluation of each strategic area,
parated from the definition of an appropriate monito-
through the drafting of a report that - in addition to the
ring system, which represents an essential ingredient
assessment of target achievements for specific stra-
to ensure its success. Monitoring, understanding the
tegic actions - will outline the following approaches:
actual state of implementation and the critical issues,
is indeed the basis for deploying corrective actions
•
Analysis of KPIs related to the entire strategic area;
or even for partially revising the strategic goals them-
selves, should rapid and significant evolutions of the
•
Analysis of Flagship projects, identifying a very li-
context be detected. The main distinction that can be
mited number of specific projects whose progress
made between different measurement systems con-
can be considered as a proxy for the entire sector.
cerns the use of quantitative tools or the use of qua-
For example, for many years in the USA, the results
litative approaches. However, it is not possible to a
of space projects have been taken as a significant
priori determine the superiority of one approach over
indicator of the entire country’s scientific and tech-
the other: their effectiveness depends greatly on the
nological progress. Obviously, the flagship projects
context, the nature of the plan, and of course, the avai-
must be carefully chosen: they need to be concrete,
lability of data.
credible, highly visible, touch on topics of interest
to all citizens, and contribute to building a collective
Each of the individual strategic actions defined in the
image of the future.
areas of Training, Research, Public Administration,
and Business has already been characterized in the
In particular, for the drafting of the report, the Founda-
document by a specific target value associated with a
tion will also utilize a panel of experts who will analy-
quantitative metric, defined through a key performan-
ce indicator (or KPI19) linked to the main variables of ze the state of the KPIs and/or the flagship projects, to
produce a well-argued evaluation report, adopting the
interest. Specifically, KPIs have been chosen to monitor
Delphi method20,21. Developed by the Rand Corpora-
the progress of strategic actions towards their goals
tion during the Cold War (and repeatedly updated over
(effectiveness).
the years), the method involves anonymous experts
responding to a questionnaire over several rounds, un-
At a more ambitious level, it would have been possi-
der the guidance of a specialized facilitator. After each
ble to also consider the costs (cost/effectiveness). At
cycle, the facilitator provides an anonymous summary
an even more challenging level, one could have con-
of the evaluations made, as well as the reasons the
sidered the cost in relation to the opportunities of the
experts have provided for their judgments. In light of
resources employed, thus establishing the differen-
this information, the experts themselves are then en-
tial benefit of the project compared to the possible
couraged to revise their previous answers, gradually
alternative uses of the same resources (costs/benefi-
converging to a synthesis.
ts). However, the strategy has referred exclusively to
evaluations of effectiveness, avoiding considerations
of cost and opportunity that would require value judg- Monitoring of Strategic Areas
ments not strictly related to the strategy; nevertheless,
the introduction of effectiveness criteria represents a Regarding the strategic area of EDUCATION, the panel
step forward in the dissemination of the culture of sel- of experts will take care to analyze some specific KPIs:
f-evaluation.
•
The number of “interdisciplinary” degree courses
The assessment of the overall effectiveness of the stra- (not limited to computer science or computer en-
tegy cannot, however, be resolved by analyzing the gineering) that include AI teachings;
achievement of targets (on KPIs) related to individual
•
actions but must instead consider the overall impact The number of students enrolled in doctoral pro-
that these actions have generated. A more articulated grams related to AI;
evaluation will therefore be entrusted to the Founda-
•
tion for Artificial Intelligence, which will have the fun- AI competence/awareness in citizenship, to
ctions of overall monitoring (and of individual strategic be collected via CATI/CAWI surveys invol-
actions), control, and early warning. ving a stratified sample of the population22.
The Foundation will also have the responsibility to
19 Parmenter D. (2019) Key Performance Indicators: Developing, Implementing, and Using Winning KPIs, John Wiley & Sons Inc.
20 Blokdyk G. (2023) Delphi Method. A Complete Guide, The Art of Service.
21 Niederberger M., Renn O. (Eds, 2023) Delphi Methods in the Social and Health Sciences: Concepts, Applications and Case Studies, Springer Nature.
22 Un campione di 1.000 persone sul totale dei cittadini italiani può fornire risultati con un margine di errore del 3%.
35
Regarding RESEARCH, both KPIs and flagship projects and the effectiveness of these in promoting the deve-
will be evaluated. Specifically: lopment and adoption of AI solutions, with the aim of
streamlining and transforming business processes.
•
Data on scientific production in Artificial Intelligen-
•
ce. In this sector, it is indeed possible to use establi- The number of startup businesses created with a
shed bibliometric indicators, considering that “scien- focus on AI and the number of businesses active
tometrics” has made great progress in terms of in the development of AI technologies. This indica-
analysis, evaluation, and forecasting capabilities23. tor is indeed relevant to monitor the impact of the
strategy on the productive context that acts as an
•
The progress and quality of initiatives on strategic enabler for the adoption of AI solutions in the indu-
actions R.1 and R.3. These initiatives aim to promo- strial sector and SMEs.
te the strengthening of the research ecosystem and
the creation of Italian LMMs and must be analyzed
by evaluating the actual results achieved and the
real impacts.
As for PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, interesting information,
also with respect to comparisons among EU countries,
is provided by the DESI report; however, this report,
besides having a lag of about a year, offers a general
view of the digitalization process and is not particularly
focused on AI. On the other hand, a specific measure
for all sectors would be difficult and especially costly,
so the growth of the Public Administration system will
be evaluated by accurately monitoring two important
flagship projects:
•
The impact of initiatives on strategic action
PA.5. In this regard, it is considered important
to evaluate the improvement in access to and
use of citizen services, also measuring their le-
vel of digitalization. Monitoring could be perfor-
med by allowing citizens who access a service
platform to leave their feedback, as is often the
case with services offered by the private sec-
tor; alternatively, surveys could be employed
at predetermined intervals on a sample drawn
from those who have made at least one access.
•
The impact of initiatives on strategic action PA.6.
In this area, the involvement of experts well-versed in
Public Administration is considered essential to assess
the actual streamlining of administrative procedures.
Finally, regarding BUSINESSES, the following KPIs and
flagship projects will be evaluated:
•
Data on AI adoption in SMEs. In this regard, it is ob-
served that some interesting data are provided by
the ISTAT survey on information and communica-
tion technologies in businesses, containing a specific
section on AI. This section provides interesting insi-
ghts into the state of adoption of these technologies;
however, it lacks a view on businesses that develop
technology and provide services and/or products
with a strong AI content. Thus, an extension of the
questionnaire in the specified direction is proposed.
•
Impact of initiatives on strategic action I.2, characte-
rizing in particular the SMEs involved in facilitators
23 Si vedano, ad esempio, le riviste Quantitative Science Studies (ISSN 2641-3337), Scientometrics (ISSN 0138-9130), Journal of Informetrics (ISSN 1751-1577).
36
REGULATORY BODIES
Contextual Framework Italian Supervisory Agency
The European regulation on artificial intelligence (AI Given the outlined framework, the Authority defined
Act) will establish a uniform legal framework aimed within the European regulatory framework can be
at regulating the development, marketing, and use of established in Italy as an Agency, with a role in super-
artificial intelligence systems in accordance with the vision and notification. In this sense, at least two sets
values and constitutional rights of the EU. The AI Act of problems arise, upon which the space and compe-
seeks to regulate artificial intelligence through a so-cal- titiveness of Artificial Intelligence systems developed
led risk-based approach that imposes varying levels in Italy will depend. Firstly, the support of those who
of compliance obligations depending on the risk (low, develop, distribute, or implement AI in understanding
medium, or high) that software and intelligent applica- and implementing the complex European and national
tions may pose to fundamental rights. The higher the legislation. The Agency, with its legal and technological
risk, the greater the compliance burdens and respon- expertise, must act as a privileged interlocutor so that
sibilities of the developers of intelligent applications. Italy can support the digital industry or the production
Moreover, the legislation excludes the use of artificial system that intends to adopt AI systems, in close syner-
intelligence for certain purposes identified as contrary gy with the Foundation for implementation, coordina-
to EU values (e.g., social scoring). Following its official tion, and monitoring (referred to in Action A.3). Always
publication, the European framework will require ap- to the benefit of the production system, the Agency
proximately two years to be applied, to allow for the must provide guidance within the legal framework.
complex adaptation by operators.
Indeed, the AI Act affects numerous legal areas alre-
From the current versions of the regulation, several ady regulated and in which other Authorities operate
Authorities will be established to oversee and imple- with their different directives due to sector-specifici-
ment the legislation on AI, distinguishing by compe- ty: data protection and the competence of the privacy
tencies and functions: at the European level (art. 56) watchdog; consumer protection and the regulation of
and the national level (art. 59). The European Authority digital services market (also affected by the recent Di-
will primarily aim to coordinate the application of the gital Market Act) under the jurisdiction of AGCM; the
regulation and the activities of the National Authori- countering of harmful digital content – also under the
ties. This role will translate into an important drafting Digital Services Act – under the jurisdiction of AGCOM.
of guidelines and best practices to support developers Additionally, the banking and financial sector, where
and users of this technology. A primarily coordinating in the realm of artificial intelligence the AI Act leaves
function, but also clarifying and supportive, to which a competence to the ECB and nationally to the Bank of
supervisory role is added, also through potential coor- Italy and Consob. In short, a complex framework, an
dinated joint investigations. over-regulation complicated by overlapping discipli-
nes and competencies among Authorities, represents
However, a crucial role will be played by National Au- a problem that the Agency will need to help simplify
thorities, which according to the AI Act, “each Mem- to allow an intelligible application, fostering the pro-
ber State shall establish or designate.” Specifically, duction system and innovation.
the regulation outlines two main functions relegated
to the national level: the supervisory function and the The Agency will also need to establish protocols and
notification function. Abstracting from the specific de- maintain close collaboration with the National Cy-
tails, the former is aimed at ensuring that the AI Act bersecurity Agency (ACN), given the crucial role that
is respected by manufacturers and distributors of AI AI plays in the sector and the implications for regula-
systems; the notification function, on the other hand, tory compliance (consider, for example, the emerging
involves verifying the regularity of certification activi- issues of attributing responsibility for cyber-attacks
ties issued by third parties to creators of artificial intel- using AI tools). On the other hand, the supervisory
ligence systems that fall into the high-risk categories. agency and the ACN must necessarily be differentiated
The regulation stipulates that the National Authorities and independent: firstly, because they implement two
must be entities with strong technical specialization, different regulatory apparatuses, but primarily they
established through primary national source coordina- must be independent due to the high specialization
ted with the European system. and complexity of the distinct functions assigned by
the European legislator, defining precise and close ties
of collaboration so that AI systems can always guaran-
tee the highest levels of reliability, integrity, availability,
and security of the implemented national technology.
37
AGID Agenzia per
l’Italia Digitale
38