[ Provisional translation]
Please refer to the original text for accuracy
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE BASIC PLAN
— “Japan Rebooted” through “Trustworthy Al” —
December 23, 2025
Cabinet Decision
Table of Contents
Chapter 1 Basic Concept — Aiming to Become “the most Al-friendly country in the world” —
Chapter 2 Basic Policies on Measures for Promoting Research and Development, and Utilization of Al-related
Technology
Chapter 3 Measures the Government Should Comprehensively and Systematically Implement to Promote
Research and Development, and Utilization of Al-related Technology
Section 1 Accelerating Al Utilization
Section 2 Strategically Strengthening Al Development Capabilities
Section 3 Leading Al Governance
Section 4 Sustainable Transformation toward an Al Society
Chapter 4 Matters Necessary for the Government to Comprehensively and Systematically Advance Measures
for Promoting Research and Development, and Utilization of Al-related Technology
Section 1 Implementation Structure and Follow-up for the Al Basic Plan
Section 2 Revisions to the Al Basic Plan
Section 3 Coordination with Other Plans
[Provisional translation]
Chapter 1 Basic Concept — Aiming to Become “the most Al-friendly country in the
world” —
(A world transformed by Al and Japan’s current situation)
Artificial intelligence (hereinafter “Al”) is undergoing rapid technological advancement, led by generative Al.
Entering 2025, new Al-related technologies have been advancing, such as “Al agents” that can autonomously
execute business operations, and “physical Al” that moves robots and other devices in the real world. Al is
becoming indispensable for sustainable global development, as it greatly improves efficiency and convenience
across diverse fields, enables new scientific discoveries, and amplifies human creativity.
Around the world, Al is increasingly used in everyday life—from shopping and travel advice to drafting
documents. Public and private sectors alike are strengthening initiatives that view Al as a factor directly linked to
industrial competitiveness and national security, and one that influences national strength, forming an “all-out
effort.” Japan cannot afford to fall behind.
At the same time, in Japan Al is not yet actively used in daily life and work. Investments and development
relating to Al also lag behind not only major economies but even some countries with smaller economic scale,
with this lag becoming increasingly pronounced each year. Given Japan’s many social challenges—including
acute labor shortages across regions—That’s why Japan must face Al ahead of the rest of the world and
proactively promote its use. In the field of Al, where basic research and social implementation are closely
connected, the lack of progress in implementation has become a major bottleneck for Al development in Japan.
Now is the time to proactively advance Al utilization and research & development, and build and execute a
national strategy for Al, starting with the promotion of “Al innovation” - launching transformations in the
economic and social structure as well as creating additional value.
(What Japan aims to achieve through “Al innovation”)
Beyond efficiency and productivity gains that enable timely and reliable execution of operations, Al can also
create new businesses and markets that lead tofurther development, and help solve social issues to achieve
inclusive growth. Moreover, it could also serve as a means to resolve longstanding challenges facing Japan's
economy and society, such as population decline, insufficient domestic investment, and stagnant wages.
Al will improve the quality of life for citizens and enable a safe and secure society—including in health and
medical care and disaster management. As a “dual-use” technology, Al can also contribute to more advanced
national security technologies and peacebuilding.
Proactively advancing Al innovation will unlock Japan’s latent potential. By enhancing the high added-value of
Japan’s human resources and industries domestically, while also promoting outward-looking policies that
promoting overseas expansion of domestic talent and industries in light of curbing digital deficits, Japan will
pursue a combined domestic and international approach.
In Al innovation, Japan will emphasize recreating the value of “trustworthiness,” which our society has long
cultivated and which is admired worldwide.
[ Provisional translation]
Across Japan’s many various workplaces, we will actively apply Al to pressing challenges, accumulate experience
as data, and share it across organizations to create “Trustworthy Al.” With open model development,
exploration of physical Al, and research & development for Al-driven operations, Japan will lead the world and
expand Al’s frontier. Anchored by “Trustworthy Al,” Japan will coordinate diverse Al innovations across
countries.
(A moment for a “strategic offensive”)
The competitive landscape around Al is changing rapidly. In addition to investment in foundation models, the
market is increasingly valuing applications specialized by industry and operations that create concrete value.
Although Japan fell behind in investment scale, Japan now has an excellent opportunity to find its competitive
edge through “Trustworthy Al,” supported by a very broad industrial base.
We must thoroughly instill the active use of “Trustworthy Al” throughout society, turn the cycle from mere
“utilization” to “development,” and, leveraging Japan’s strengths—high-quality data in industry, healthcare, and
research and world-class communications infrastructure—launch an “strategic offensive” together with the
world. Al that solves Japan’s challenges will also contribute to solving global challenges.
(Mitigating risks)
Al presents multiple risks: technical risks such as misjudgments, hallucinations, and inappropriate outputs; social
risks such as discrimination and bias, criminal use, excessive dependence, infringements on privacy and
intellectual property, environmental burdens, and spread of disinformation and misinformation; and national
security risks including cyberattacks. These risks understandably cause public anxiety.
To foster momentum for “trying out Al,” and realize a virtuous cycle from “utilization” to “development,” it is
essential to appropriately and promptly identify risks that fluctuate alongside technological advances in Al,
ensure appropriateness—starting with transparency, fairness, and safety—and thereby embody safe, secure and
“Trustworthy Al” to dispel public anxiety.
(Toward Becoming “the most Al-friendly country in the world”)
Japan has pursued Al strategy through promoting innovation while mitigating risks. To further evolve the
strategy as a core of both “risk management investment” and “growth investment,” we will deepen this balance
to ensure a human-centered Al society where individual dignity is respected so that people and Al can work
together continuously, and pursue “Trustworthy Al” to realize “the most Al-friendly country in the world.”
In doing so, it is essential for the government and private sector to unite in building a new Al-driven economic
development and a safe and secure society.
As the strategy toward national goals, the government will establish this “Artificial Intelligence Basic Plan” under
Article 18, paragraph (1) of the Act on Promotion of Research and Development, and Utilization of Artificial
Intelligence-related Technology (Act No. 53 of 2025; hereinafter the “Al Act”), and steadily advance the contents
included in the Al Basic Plan.
[Provisional translation]
Chapter 2 Basic Policies on Measures for Promoting Research and Development, and
Utilization of Al-related Technology
This Chapter sets forth the “three principles” and “four basic policies” on measures for promoting research and
development, and utilization of Al-related technology, based on the basic principles provided in Article 3 of the
Al Act.
Three Principles
¢ Promoting innovation while mitigating risks — To realize the human-centered Al society principle (as decided
by the Strategic Headquarters for the Promotion of Science, Technology and Innovation on March 29, 2019), we
will thoroughly promote innovation while mitigating risks.
e Agile response — We will institutionalize a PDCA (plan—do—check—act) cycle and adopt an agile approach that
responds flexibly and swiftly to changes.
¢ Promotion of Integrated domestic and international policies — Through proactive international cooperation,
Japan will promote Al-related policies that comprehensively integrate both domestic and foreign policies in an
organic manner with the aim of becoming a hub of diverse Al innovations.
Four Basic Policies
1. Accelerate Al utilization (“Adopt Al”):
By actively utilizing cutting-edge Al technologies across Japanese society while implementing appropriate risk
mitigating measures, we will foster new innovation. Promoting the accumulation and utilization of data—the
foundation for promoting Al innovation—particularly by facilitating cross-organizational data sharing, will enable
thorough Al utilization and enhance Al performance.
2. Strategically strengthen Al development capabilities (“Create Al”):
Advance development across the Al ecosystem—from infrastructure to applications—and combine them
organically to develop “Trustworthy Al,” Japan’s competitive edge. By first deploying Al—where fundamental
research and societal implementation converge—across society as a whole, and then creating Al to solve the
challenges that arise from this deployment, we can achieve a virtuous cycle that drives broad technological
innovation.
3. Lead Al governance (“Enhance Al Trustworthiness”):
To foster an environment that realizes a virtuous cycle of Al utilization and technological innovation in a society
where humans and Al collaborate, Japan will establish governance to ensure the appropriateness of Al.
As Al operates across borders, international governance is essential in addition to domestic measures, and Japan
will take the lead in its development.
4. Sustainable transformation toward an Al society (“Collaborate with Al”):
{ Provisional translation]
To realize a society where humans and Al collaborate, we will proactively and continuously transform industries,
employment structures, systems, and societal frameworks.
Beyond cultivating and securing Al talent who both utilize and create Al, we will build an environment that
enhances the “human capabilities” needed to thrive in an Al society, while exploring the division of roles
between humans and Al.
[Provisional translation]
Chapter 3 Measures that the Government Should Comprehensively and
Systematically Implement to Promote Research and Development, and
Utilization of Al-related Technology
This chapter establishes “measures that the Government should comprehensively and systematically implement
to promote research and development, and utilization of Al-related technology,” based on the three principles
and four basic policies outlined in the previous chapter.
Note: © indicates major ministries and agencies responsible for coordinating all related policies.
Section 1 Accelerating Al Utilization
Japan will aim for a society where Al is used routinely and promote utilization across diverse scenes. We will
broadly nurture the mindset of “try it out first” across all generations.
We will strive to address factors that have hindered Al adoption, such as insufficient understanding of its effects
and risks.
Society as a whole will work to ensure that all entities actively utilize Al to improve the quality of life for every
citizen, enhance business activities, and solve social issues.
To promote Al utilization in Japan, the Government itself will take the lead in actively and proactively utilizing Al,
starting with its own operations. We will improve the quality of government work by embedding and
establishing the routine use of Al by government employees. By proactively leading the way in appropriate
government procurement and utilization of Al, tailored to the attributes and purposes of the information
handled, we will ensure the reliability and transparency of Al used in Japanese society. Looking ahead, the goal is
to build an environment where all central government ministry and agency employees, including those in
regional branches, can tangibly experience improved work quality. We will promptly establish an environment
enabling ministry and agency employees to utilize generative Al. In doing so, we will introduce mechanisms to
encourage staff at the managerial level and above to take the lead in its utilization.
Local governments must sustainably provide administrative services amid resource constraints caused by
population decline and rising costs to maintain and renew social infrastructure. Local governments will prepare
environments enabling active Al introduction to overcome these challenges. (e.g., There are some regional
initiatives which establish opportunities and pilots for promoting Al verification and implementation (such as the
Al Hokkaido Conference) and developing core support facilities (such as STATION Ai) aimed at fostering the
creation, nurturing, and expansion of startups.
We will actively support Al utilization in fields directly linked to resolving social and national challenges:
addressing labor shortages; ensuring safety and reassurance in disaster management and infrastructure;
advancing security-related technologies; and more.
We will promote Al utilization that leads to the creation of new businesses and industries.
[Provisional translation]
To promote Al utilization that contributes to regional revitalization, economic recovery, and improving the
quality of life for citizens, we will proactively advance institutional reforms—including the review of existing
regulations and systems—with Al utilization as a fundamental premise.
To realize pervasive Al utilization and improve performance, we will strategically promote the accumulation,
use, and sharing of data—especially cross-organizational sharing and public—private collaboration—while
strategically ensuring data security such as preventing leakage of trade secrets.
[Specific Initiatives]
(1) Thorough utilization of Al in central and local governments
(i) Appropriately utilize generative Al, etc. in government operations, such as by promoting Government Al
(Government Al platform) and promote improvements in the quality and efficiency of operations. [Digital
Agency (©), all ministries and agencies]
(ii) The Government itself will take the lead in appropriately procuring Al, and promoting its utilization in a safe
and secure manner. [Cabinet Office (©), Digital Agency, all ministries and agencies]
(iii) To invigorate Al utilization in regions, promote appropriate Al utilization in local governments—such as
horizontal deployment of excellent use cases. [Digital Agency, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
(O)]
(2) Promotion of Al utilization toward solving social issues
(i) In each field—medical care and healthcare, long-termcare, finance, education, disaster risk reduction and fire
services, environmental conservation, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, the food industry, manufacturing such
as shipbuilding and the marine equipment industry, infrastructure construction and management, logistics,
public transportation, etc.—promote the development, demonstration, introduction, and social implementation
of Al (including Al agents and physical Al). [Cabinet Office (©), relevant ministries and agencies]
(ii) Promote the introduction of Al into industries that broadly support regions, such as advancing the facilitation
of Al introduction in small and medium-sized enterprises beginning with Digitization/Al Introduction Subsidies.
[Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iii) Promote Al utilization for the fundamental reinforcement of defense capabilities. [Ministry of Defense]
(iv) Promote Al utilization for the advancement of police activities to ensure the safety and security of the
public. [National Police Agency]
(v) Promote Al utilization to ensure security in the field of information and communications. [Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications]
[ Provisional translation]
(3) Creation of new businesses and industries through promotion of Al utilization
(i) Support leading introduction of physical Al into businesses and industries. [Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry]
(ii) Support Al utilization in scientific research for researchers from both academia and industry. [Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology]
(iii) Provide support to startups, etc. that possess innovative technologies relating to Al. [Cabinet Secretariat,
Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(4) Creating mechanisms for further Al utilization
(i) Toward the realization of social implementation of Al in various situations, while listening to the voices of
citizens, conduct inspection and review of existing regulations and systems. [Cabinet Office]
(ii) For various data held by the Government and government-related institutions, arrange them into machine-
readable form, and strive to build a data environment premised on Al use. [Cabinet Secretariat, Cabinet Office
(©), relevant ministries and agencies]
(iii) Make high-quality data in semi-public sectors such as medical care, education, agriculture, forestry and
fisheries, and construction, and in industrial and research fields that are Japan’s strengths, into Japan’s winning
strategy; while ensuring data security including measures addressing the risk of leakage of trade secrets, build a
data linkage platform. [Cabinet Office (©), Digital Agency, relevant ministries and agencies]
(iv) Examine the regulations on obtaining data subjects’ consent for contributing to facilitating Al development,
etc. which can be categorized as generating statistics, and how to ensure compliance with regulations; and aim
for early submission to the Diet of a bill to amend the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (Act No. 57
of 2003). [Personal Information Protection Commission]
Section 2 Strategically Strengthening Al Development Capabilities
To strengthen Japan’s autonomous capacity to research, develop, and operate Al, we will strategically and
integratively build the domestic Al ecosystem that includes data and data centers, foundation models, and
applications, while gaining a comprehensive view of the entire ecosystem. By actively expanding overseas to
enhance international competitiveness, we aim to contribute to strengthening national power and correcting
digital deficits. Taking into account state sovereignty and national security, we will ensure Japan’s autonomy and
indispensability.
We position Al as intellectual and execution infrastructure, and through research and development, and
utilization of energy-efficient foundation models, we will realize a new “Technology-Driven Nation” and
[ Provisional translation]
contribute to Green Transformation (GX: Transformation and activities aimed at minimizing the use of fossil
fuels and utilizing clean energy) across society.
We will pursue open development, welcome top talent domestically and internationally, leverage Japan’s high-
quality data in industry, healthcare, and research, and raise domestic Al development capabilities.
By conducting research and development of Al including fundamental research domestically through not solely
relying on other countries but creating a virtuous cycle between development and implementation, we will
enable acquiring practical skills and cultivate ready-to-deploy Al talent.
Japan will intensify its focus on developing and deploying physical Al capable of executing physical tasks in the
real world—such as creating diverse services combining Al models and apps, autonomous driving, managing
factories and infrastructure, and autonomous robots that collaborate with humans—as well as promoting Al for
Science that widely utilizes Al in scientific research.
We will advance the preparation of data, the development of foundational models and evaluation frameworks
to realize trustworthy Al, taking into account state sovereignty and national security perspectives as well as
Japan's culture and customs.
To strengthen Al research and development and enhance and secure the foundation for its utilization, we will
accelerate the strategic development of Al infrastructure. This includes developing and supplying sufficient
computing resources and the underlying semiconductors, establishing data centers and cloud environments,
building the communication networks that support them, and ensuring a stable power supply system.
To ensure the sustainable development of the Al ecosystem, the public and private sectors will collaborate to
strategically invest in research and development, Al infrastructure development, and other areas. This will be
achieved by utilizing provisions of the Act on the Promotion of Ensuring National Security Through Integrated
Implementation of Economic Measures (Act No. 43 of 2022), small and medium enterprise policies, tax
measures conducive to investment promotion, and R&D tax systems, while actively attracting private
investment. We will accelerate investment promptly to ensure Al investment becomes a growth engine driving
the Japanese economy.
[Specific Initiatives]
(1) Strengthening Al Development Capabilities in Japan
(i) Promote the building of a data linkage platform such as the creation and provision of new datasets and
multimodal data (e.g. Multiple types of information, such as images, audio, and language) necessary for Al
research and development. [Cabinet Office (©), Digital Agency, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications,
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
[Provisional translation]
(ii) To secure Al researchers and developers including top talent from inside and outside Japan, carry out
comprehensive initiatives such as improvements in treatment and living environment. [Cabinet Office (©),
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iii) To incorporate advanced knowledge, promote collaboration and cooperation among industry, academia
(universities and research institutes), and government as well as among private business operators in Japan and
abroad. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iv) Promote enhancement of performance of Al models and multimodalization. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry]
(v) Develop evaluation platforms and testbeds for objectively evaluating Al performance and trustworthiness.
[Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(vi) Support the expansion of the Al industry, including Al infrastructure, into overseas markets such as those in
the Global South countries. [Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (©),
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(2) Promotion of Development of Al Models, etc.: Japan’s Winning Strategy
(i) So that Japan can lead the world, strategically and integratively promote research and development and
demonstration of physical Al—including creation of public demand for Al robots and introduction of more
advanced autonomous driving technologies. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science
and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(ii) Promote Al for Science initiatives, such as development and utilization of foundation models in fields
including life sciences and materials, efficiency improvement of creation and utilization of research data
including automation of experiments, strengthening of information infrastructure, and basic research on Al.
[Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology]
(iii) Promote drug discovery Al that contributes to efficiency improvement of new drug development. [Ministry
of Health, Labour and Welfare]
(iv) In fields where Japan has strengths—manufacturing, infrastructure including communications, the content
industry, finance, space, oceans, agriculture, forestry and fisheries, etc.—pursue new business models fused
with Al, while also keeping overseas deployment in view. [Cabinet Office (©), relevant ministries and agencies]
(3) Development of Trustworthy Al Foundation Models, etc.
[Provisional translation]
(i) Promote development and evaluation of trustworthy Al based on Japan’s culture and customs. Including
utilization of existing aggregated data, work to develop and expand high-quality Japanese-language data.
[Cabinet Office (©), Digital Agency, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Education,
Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(ii) Positioning Japan as a hub for the development of trustworthy Al, foster trustworthy Al ecosystem
encompassing open-source and open-weight Al models (open-source: a license type where the software's
source code is publicly available, allowing anyone to view, use, modify, and redistribute it. open-weight: refers
to the state where an Al model's if “trained weights” are publicly available.), concurrently, cooperate with other
countries on this initiative, taking a leadership role in establishing a global network. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports,
Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iii) Promote development of foundation models toward realizing an Al ecosystem that emphasizes energy
efficiency. [Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(4) Strengthening and Securing Al Research and Development, and Utilization Infrastructure
(i) Promote establishment of data centers, securing of compute resources necessary for Al research and
development, development of efficient power and communications infrastructure (“Watt-Bit Collaboration”),
introduction of an All-Photonics Network, and research and development of next-generation information and
communications infrastructure (Beyond 5G). [Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (©), Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of the
Environment]
(ii) Promote research and development of high-performance Al semiconductors, etc. [Ministry of Internal Affairs
and Communications, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy,
Trade and Industry (©)]
(iii) Promote development and maintenance of a new flagship system that will be the next generation of the
supercomputer “Fugaku.” [Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology]
(iv) Promote expansion of production capacity and supply capacity for each layer of Al infrastructure developed
and manufactured domestically, and strengthen the supply chain. [Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
Section 3 Leading Al Governance
To realize a positive cycle of Al innovation and build a trustworthy Al ecosystem, we will construct PDCA cycles
across development, verification, evaluation, and operation. To achieve this, we will show the Government’s
basic approach to encouraging autonomous and proactive initiatives by citizens and business operators.
[Provisional translation]
We will substantially strengthen the national Al safety and evaluation functions (Al Safety Institute: AISI) and
appropriately evaluate Al models’ technical aspects, grasp risks, and take necessary measures. To enhance the
capabilities of the AISI, we will immediately expand staffing to approximately twice the current level,
benchmarking against the scale of the UK's Al Security Institute, one of the world's leading institutions.
(benchmark: UK Al Security Institute—approximately 200 personnel; initial budget about £100 million (=¥20
billion) as of September 2025)
Recognizing that ensuring Al safety and countering Al-enabled attacks are emerging as new cybersecurity
challenges, we will take appropriate measures, including establishing necessary frameworks.
When utilizing Al in government operations, we will fulfill our accountability to the public such as by ensuring
the basis for decisions remains transparent and maintain administrative reliability.
As the country that spearheaded the international framework for Al governance, the Hiroshima Al Process,
Japan will continue to promote international coordination in building Al governance while leading international
discussions.
In doing so, Japan will prioritize ensuring interoperability among Al models based on diverse development
entities, applications, and design philosophies, positioning itself as a global hub for Al innovation.
[Specific Initiatives]
(1) Building a Trustworthy Al Ecosystem
(i) As technological development progresses, problems that maliciously use Al, such as deepfakes, are becoming
evident. Regarding these and their impacts on citizens’ lives, conduct research and studies, etc. based on Article
16 of the Al Act, and appropriately take responses to risks, etc. [Cabinet Office (©), relevant ministries and
agencies]
(ii) While encouraging voluntary initiatives to ensure appropriateness in Al research, development, and
utilization by business operators, etc., prepare guidelines based on Article 13 of the Al Act and other domestic
guidelines related to R&D and utilization of Al for smooth and appropriate utilization in administration, and
ensure thorough dissemination to stakeholders. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, relevant ministries and agencies]
(iii) Take responses to various crimes such as cyberattacks and fraud that maliciously use Al, including
improvement of capability to deal with Al-related cyber incidents. [National Police Agency (©), Ministry of
Internal Affairs and Communications]
(iv) Promote Al utilization aimed at ensuring security across various fields. [Cabinet Office (©), relevant
ministries and agencies]
(v) Build a system that can execute evaluations relating not only to the safety of Al models but also broader
appropriateness and measures on the security front, and strengthen technical and institutional governance. As
[ Provisional translation]
the core, fundamentally strengthen the functions of AISI, with the whole government effort. [Cabinet Office (©),
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, relevant ministries and agencies]
(vi) Regarding responses to dis/misinformation, etc. generated by malicious use of generative Al, support the
development of technologies to distinguish Al-generated content and control functions of Al, which also
contribute to enhancement of Japan’s Al evaluation capabilities. (e.g., electronic watermarking and post-hoc
authenticity verification technologies) [Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (©), Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(2) International Cooperation Including ASEAN and Other Global South Countries
(i) Actively utilize the Hiroshima Al Process Friends Group and diplomatic opportunities, and strengthen
cooperation with ASEAN and other Global South countries, etc. [Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications
(©), Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(ii) Toward formulation of international standards related to Al, participate in international standardization
activities in the Al field at ISO/IEC JTC 1 (a joint technical committee of ISO (International Organization for
Standardization) and IEC (International Electrotechnical Commission)), etc. [Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry]
(iii) Leading the building of Al governance by promoting the Hiroshima Al Process and utilizing international
frameworks such as the AISI network. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications,
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, relevant ministries and agencies]
(iv) Regarding Al application in the military domain, actively engage in international discussions through
balanced discussions that take into account humanitarian considerations and security perspectives. [Ministry of
Foreign Affairs (©), Ministry of Defense]
(v) Utilize the GPAI Tokyo Expert Support Center, etc., and through project-based support, back concrete
problem-solving regarding Al governance and social implementation. [Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications]
(vi) Aiming for the autonomous and trustworthy development of diverse Al ecosystem across countries,
establish co-creation and cooperation models with Global South countries. [Cabinet Office, Digital Agency,
Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (©), Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
Section 4 Sustainable Transformation Toward an Al Society
We will build a new industrial structure centered on Al, revitalize regions, and realize inclusive growth so
everyone enjoys the benefits.
[Provisional translation]
As Al advances rapidly, we will proactively review institutions and social systems to create a new society where
people and Al can collaborate sustainably.
We will continuously implement a process that carefully analyzes the impact of Al advancements on
employment, including changes in industrial structure and job types, and takes measures such as education and
reskilling support to enable all generations to adapt to new ways of working.
Developing and securing Al talent responsible for Al utilization and development is essential for realizing an Al
society. To create concrete added value, it is particularly important to enhance foundational and academic
knowledge related to Al starting from primary and secondary education (up to the high school level), while also
cultivating talent with broad knowledge across various fields, including industries where convergence is possible.
Therefore, the central government will take the lead in developing and securing Al talent, focusing on both
quality and quantity.
To enable people to demonstrate their human value in an Al society, efforts will be made to enhance “human
capabilities,” including creativity, critical thinking, judgment, adaptability, and communication skills.
Prevent disparities and exclusion caused by Al advancements, and ensure no one is left behind in an Al society.
[Specific Initiatives]
(1) Building an Industrial Structure Centered on Al
(i) To promote organizational management reform centered on Al (A/ Transformation; Leveraging Al to
transform products, services, and business models based on customer and societal needs, while simultaneously
transforming operations themselves, organizations, processes, and corporate culture and climate to establish
competitive advantage), carry out visualization of the status of DX/Al utilization initiatives in enterprises, etc.,
and provide focused support to business operators whose reform initiatives are progressing. [Cabinet Office,
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (©)]
(ii) Including presentation of concrete images, create new industries utilizing Al infrastructure domestically and
expand employment opportunities. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications,
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iii) Promote domestic location of Al-related industries, through regulatory sandbox systems and startup support
systems, etc. [Cabinet Secretariat, Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iv) Investigate and analyze the development of the “Al economic sphere,” including Al agents conducting
transactions with each other, and explore its ideal form. [Cabinet Office (©), relevant ministries and agencies]
(2) Examination and Demonstration of Institutions and Frameworks in an Al Society
[ Provisional translation]
(i) Toward realization of social implementation of Al in various situations, while listening to the voices of citizens,
conduct inspection and review of existing regulations and systems. [Reposted] [Cabinet Office]
(ii) Regarding the location and scope of civil liability when accidents or damages occur in Al utilization, consider
appropriate framework. [Cabinet Office, Consumer Affairs Agency, Ministry of Internal Affairs and
Communications, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (O)]
(iii) While ensuring transparency leading to appropriate protection and utilization of intellectual property,
promote compensation return to content holders, etc., develop a consultation framework regarding measures
against intellectual property rights infringement by generative Al, and advance initiatives such as provision of
easy-to-understand information regarding generative Al and intellectual property rights. [Cabinet Office (©),
relevant ministries and agencies]
(iv) Regarding intellectual property rights over products and services generated by Al utilization, examine the
appropriate state. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, relevant ministries and
agencies]
(v) Regarding the impact on employment accompanied by the advancement of Al, conduct surveys and analyses
from the aspects of both substitutability and complementarity, and continuously implement comprehensive
measures based on the results. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, relevant ministries
and agencies]
(3) Developing and Securing Al talent
(i) Conduct surveys and analyses of human resource needs based on the industrial structure of the Al era.
[Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(ii) Promote the development and securing of engineers and researchers engaged in Al utilization, research and
development, and next-generation semiconductors, as well as data management human resources, while
cooperating with other countries. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education, Culture,
Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(iii) Support industry—academia—government networks and communities relating to Al utilization and research
and development, and, through holding contests that compete in problem-solving ability, etc., promote on-the-
ground-led Al implementation. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology]
(iv) Regarding skills relating to Al, support Al reskilling initiatives for individual employees and workers. [Cabinet
Office (©), Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(v) In response to the advancement of Al, aiming at the creation of Advanced Essential Workers (essential
workers who utilize digital technologies, including Al, to earn higher wages than they do now) who support the
{ Provisional translation]
foundation of society, implement reskilling support according to occupation and job content. [Cabinet Office
(©), Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare,
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry]
(vi) Revise the Digital Skill Standard. [Cabinet Office, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (©)]
(vii) Through demonstration research, etc. toward promotion of appropriate utilization in school education,
work to improve information utilization ability at the primary and secondary education stages (up to the high
school level), and support all citizens to be able to improve Al literacy. [Cabinet Office (©), Ministry of Internal
Affairs and Communications, Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology]
(4) Raising Human Capabilities in the Al Era
(i) Toward realization of a society where people and AI collaborate, continuously explore how people engage
with Al and the appropriate division of roles between people and Al. Not depending on or being substituted by
Al, face Al, and promote development of an environment to cultivate “human capabilities” in which people
demonstrate value as human beings. [Cabinet Office (©), relevant ministries and agencies]
(ii) To foster human resources who, while enhancing uniquely human strengths, can solve problems together
with Al, promote education appropriate for the Al era, including liberal arts education. [Cabinet Office, Ministry
of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (©)]
(iii) As the very nature of working styles greatly changes with the advancement of Al, examine directions of
working styles appropriate for the Al era. [Cabinet Office, Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (©)]
[ Provisional translation]
Chapter 4 Matters Necessary for the Government to Comprehensively and
Systematically Advance Measures for Promoting Research and
Development, and Utilization of Al-related Technology
Section 1 Implementation Structure and Follow-up for the Al Basic Plan
To make the Al Basic Plan practical and realize the measures included, it is important to prepare the promotion
foundation, share progress information appropriately, and strengthen or enhance adjustments and coordination
as needed.
Centering on the Artificial Intelligence Strategic Headquarters—headed by the Prime Minister and comprising all
Cabinet members—and the Council for the Promotion of Artificial Intelligence Strategy—comprising relevant
ministries and agencies—the Government will work in close coordination.
The Headquarters will grasp the implementation status of the Al Basic Plan and conduct follow-up. We will set
appropriate benchmarks and conduct monitoring to realize Japan’s vision stated in the Al Basic Plan.
We will hear expert opinions as needed through the Expert Panel on Al Strategy and establish dedicated forums
for individual reviews.
Section 2 Revisions to the Al Basic Plan
Given the characteristics of Al, its trends, and social conditions — such as the extremely rapid technological
progress and expansion of use - we will review and revise this Plan as needed, in principle annually. In doing so,
the opinions of experts and other stakeholders will be appropriately heard through the Expert Panel on Al
Strategy, and, we will actively reflect the latest technological trends into the Al Basic Plan through strong
industry—-academia—government collaboration.
Section 3 Coordination with Other Plans
We will coordinate and integrate measures under this Plan with other related national plans—such as the Basic
Plan for Science, Technology and Innovation (under Article 12, paragraph (1) of the Basic Act on Science,
Technology and Innovation (Act No. 130 of 1995)) and the Priority Plan for the Formation of a Digital Society
(under Article 39, paragraph (1) of the Basic Act on the Formation of a Digital Society (Act No. 35 of 2021)).