5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
si; GOV-UK
D S
&
c e i p T e e a n c r c h t e n , m o e l n o I t g n n y o
fvora
tion
Independent report
Al Opportunities Action Plan
Published 13 January 2025
Contents
Foreword by the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology
The opportunity
1\. Lay the foundations to enable Al
2. Change lives by embracing Al
3. Secure our future with homegrown Al
Conclusion
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 1/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
OGL
© Crown copyright 2025
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0 except where
otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-
licence/version/3 or write to the Information Policy Team, The National Archives, Kew, London TW9
4DU, or email: psi@nationalarchives.gov.uk.
Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain permission
from the copyright holders concerned.
This publication is available at https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-
action-plan/al-opportunities-action-plan
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 2/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
Al Opportunities Action Plan
Presented to Parliament by the Secretary of State Science, Innovation and
Technology by Command of His Majesty.
CP1241
© Crown copyright 2025
ISBN 978-1-5286-5362-6
E03258815 01/25
Al OPPORTUNITIES
ACTION PLAN
Ramping up Al adoption
across the UK
to boost economic growth,
oy
provide jobs for the future and
improve people's everyday lives
Al Opportunities Action Plan. Ramping up Al adoption across the UK to boost
economic growth, provide jobs for the future and improve people's everyday
lives.
Foreword by the Secretary of State for
Science, Innovation and Technology
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan
3/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
= 4
Today, Britain is the third largest Al market in the world. We are home to an
extraordinary array of global talent and pioneering Al firms like Google
DeepMind, ARM, and Wayve. But despite our record of scientific discovery -
from Alan Turing on algorithms and general-purpose computing to Tim
Berners-Lee’s World Wide Web - the UK risks falling behind the advances in
Artificial Intelligence made in the USA and China.
In this next phase of Al development, we want Britain to step up; to shape the
Al revolution rather than wait to see how it shapes us. Because we believe
Britain has a particular responsibility to provide global leadership in fairly and
effectively seizing the opportunities of Al, as we have done on Al safety. That is
why one of my first acts as Secretary of State was to commission Matt Clifford
to devise an Al Opportunities Action Plan for the British government.
This plan shows how we can shape the application of Al within a modern
social market economy. We will do so by working closely with the world’s
leading Al companies, Britain’s world leading academics and entrepreneurs,
and those talented individuals keen to start-up and scale-up their businesses
here. Our ambition is to shape the Al revolution on principles of shared
economic prosperity, improved public services and increased personal
opportunities so that:
e Al drives the economic growth on which the prosperity of our people and the
performance of our public services depend;
https://Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 4/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
e Al directly benefits working people by improving health care and education
and how citizens interact with their government; and
e the increasing of prevalence of Al in people’s working lives opens up new
opportunities rather than just threatens traditional patterns of work.
Across government, we have already taken decisive action to support the Al
sector and take down the barriers to growth. Our transformative planning
reforms will make it easier to build the data centres that are the engines of the
Al age. Skills England will help ensure that British people are prepared for jobs
in the Al-powered industries of tomorrow. The Digital Centre of Government |
have created in my Department will drive forward the technological
transformation of the state, ensuring that public services offer citizens the
same seamless experience they can find in the private sector.
The recommendations in this plan are unapologetic in their ambition;
Government must be the same. Delivering our Al vision for Britain requires lots
of hard work, some tough choices, and a commitment to real partnership
between public and private sectors. There’s no time to waste. Today, we have
set out how we will rise to the challenge.
The Rt Hon Peter Kyle MP
Secretary of State for Science, Innovation and Technology
The opportunity
Al capabilities are developing at an extraordinary pace. If this continues,
artificial intelligence (Al) could be the government's single biggest lever to
deliver its five missions (https://www.gov.uk/missions), especially the goal of
kickstarting broad-based economic growth. It is hard to imagine how we will
meet the ambition for highest sustained growth in the G7 - and the countless
quality-of-life benefits that flow from that - without embracing the opportunities
of Al.
Any national Al plan needs to be founded on a realistic assessment of the
country’s strengths and weaknesses. Fortunately, the UK has solid - and in
places genuinely world-leading - foundations on which to build:
e Strong fundamental Al research, and high-quality research and engineering
talent coming out of our universities, which are some of the best in the world
for Al.
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 5/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
e Avibrant startup and scaleup scene, with an increasingly skilled and
experienced entrepreneurial workforce and growing quantities of
sophisticated capital available for ambitious companies.
e Leading frontier Al companies in London, including Google DeepMind’s
headquarters, significant OpenAl, Anthropic, Microsoft and Meta Al offices,
as well as emerging local winners - such as Wayve, the autonomous vehicle
company.
e Global leadership on Al safety and governance via the Al Safety Institute,
and a proportionate, flexible regulatory approach.
These are all crucial prerequisites to making the most of Al opportunities;
without them, the ambition in this plan would not be credible. However, we
cannot be complacent: to remain a world leader we need to lead in both
building and using Al. Our goal should be a thriving domestic Al ecosystem,
with serious players at multiple layers of the “Al stack” and widespread use of
Al products and services across the economy.
The UK's starting point makes this aspiration plausible, but achieving it will
require bold and visionary action. The government must:
e Invest in the foundations of Al: We need world-class computing and data
infrastructure, access to talent and regulation (Section 1).
e Push hard on cross-economy Al adoption: The public sector should
rapidly pilot and scale Al products and services and encourage the private
sector to do the same. This will drive better experiences and outcomes for
citizens and boost productivity (Section 2).
e Position the UK to be an Al maker, not an Al taker: As the technology
becomes more powerful, we should be the best state partner to those
building frontier Al. The UK should aim to have true national champions at
critical layers of the Al stack so that the UK benefits economically from Al
advancement and has influence on future Al’s values, safety and
governance (Section 3).
This Action Plan is made up of three sections - one for each of these goals.
There are detailed recommendations in each. In making them, | have tried to
draw consistently on a small number of core principles:
e Be on the side of innovators: In every element of the Action Plan, the
government should ask itself: does this benefit people and organisations
trying to do new and ambitious things in the UK? If not, we will fail to meet
our potential.
e Invest in becoming a great customer: government purchasing power can be
a huge lever for improving public services, shaping new markets in Al, and
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 6/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
boosting the domestic ecosystem. But doing this well is not easy - it will
require real leadership and radical change, especially in procurement.
e Crowd in capital and talent: The UK is a medium-sized country with a tight
fiscal situation. We need the best talent around the world to want to start
and scale companies here. If we do that, the best investors globally will want
to deploy capital here - both into our startups and our Al infrastructure.
e Build on UK strengths and catalytic emerging areas: The UK has strong
companies in the Al application and integration layers that are well
positioned to grow. We also have emerging areas of research and
engineering strength - particularly in Al for science and robotics - that could
have a transformational impact across the economy, advance Al and unlock
further innovation.
No one can say with certainty what Al will look like a decade from now. My
judgement is that experts, on balance, expect rapid progress to continue. The
risks from underinvesting and underpreparing, though, seem much greater
than the risks from the opposite. Even if Al progress slows, we will see large
benefits from deploying today’s frontier capabilities and investing in our
infrastructure and talent base.
If, however, capabilities continue to advance, having a stake in - and being the
natural home of - advanced Al could be the difference between shaping the
future of science, technology and work and seeing these decisions made
entirely outside our borders. This is a crucial asymmetric bet - and one the UK
can and must make .
1. Lay the foundations to enable Al
1.1 Building sufficient, secure and sustainable Al
Infrastructure
The foundation of the last decade of Al progress has been an extraordinary
and sustained investment in computational power (often called “compute’). Al
requires data centres that house the large and complex computers that are
used to train Al models and to run ‘inference’ (where Al is used to complete
tasks and answer queries).
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 7/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
Of course, the UK does not need to own or operate all the compute it will
need. Indeed, only a small fraction of our needs will be through such compute
(though this fraction is important). A decade from now the economy will almost
certainly be more computationally intensive: new high-skill jobs and compute-
adjacent industries will have been created and access to compute will be a key
pillar of economic security. Countries that enable the build out of Al
infrastructure will reap benefits through increased economic growth, the
reinvigoration of former industrial sites and ownership of critical strategic
assets.
The availability of powerful computing resources sends an important signal to
academic, technical and entrepreneurial talent and is a critical ingredient of
innovation. We should expect enormous improvements in computation over
the next decade, both in research and deployment. Having this “learning by
doing” happen in the UK is crucial if we want the industries of the future to be
built here.
The government must therefore secure access to a sufficient supply of
compute. There is no precise mechanism to allocate the proportions, but it
should consist of:
e Sovereign Al compute, owned and/or allocated by the public sector, will
enable the UK to quickly and independently allocate compute to national
priorities. For example, we need the ability to: drive mission-focused Al
research; empower academics and startups to train Al models; and ensure
access to Al compute for critical services in times of market disruption.
Sovereign Al compute will almost certainly be the smallest component of the
UK’s overall compute portfolio. NB: this review has not considered the
requirements of non-Al high-performance computing, for which there is
already a well-established case, including the need to deliver an exascale
capability. Government should seek to resolve this as soon as possible,
noting that these systems will play a crucial role in supporting Al science
and research.
e Domestic compute, that is based within the UK but privately owned and
operated and that will position the UK as a leading Al economy and ensure
the UK’s economic security. Due to the criticality of compute for Al, domestic
compute will create spillover benefits in the form of jobs, investment and
new, Al based, service businesses. In this part of the portfolio, crowding in
private and international capital is critical.
e International compute, accessed via reciprocal agreements and
partnerships with like-minded partners, to give the UK access to
complementary capabilities and facilitate joint Al research in areas of shared
interest. We should proactively develop these partnerships, while also taking
an active role in the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking.
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 8/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
To achieve this, government should:
1. Set out, within 6 months, a long-term plan for the UK’s Al
infrastructure needs, backed by a 10-year investment commitment.
Building a world class Al compute ecosystem requires a clear objective and
long-term capability and expertise. Government should consider what the most
appropriate delivery body is for large scale research infrastructure that is
delivered in partnership with universities and industry. We have pockets of
deep academic expertise in this space, such as at Edinburgh, Bristol and
Cambridge universities, and we should draw on this. A credible plan will
consider emerging compute technologies, include investment in software,
skills, and wider high-performance computing capabilities to complement our
Al compute and enable Al for science.
2. Expand the capacity of the Al Research Resource (AIRR) by at least
20x by 2030 - starting within 6 months. The AIRR should evolve into a set of
mission-oriented clusters that bring together compute, data, and talent to
pursue frontier Al research and other national priorities. Expansion by at least
20x by 2030 would ensure the AIRR enables the training of multiple Al models
a year and provides an up to date research capability.2om2!e “] Given trends in
hardware performance, this would not mean a 20x increase in investment if
the government procures smartly, 22t°te 2] Such expansion is needed to keep
up with the expected increases in computing power that we should assume will
be needed for Al workloads. This is unlikely to slow down; we need to “run to
stand still”. As part of this, government should ensure that the public compute
ecosystem hosts a range of hardware providers to avoid vendor lock-in and
ensure value for money.
3. Strategically allocate sovereign compute by appointing mission-
focused “AIRR programme directors” with significant autonomy. These
could be modelled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency
(DARPA) or the Advanced Research and Invention Agency (ARIA) to quickly
and independently provide large amounts of compute to high-potential projects
of national importance, operating in a way that is strategic and mission driven.
Allocation is an essential part of any compute strategy: spreading large
amounts of compute thinly will have little impact. We will have to make choices
about when to subsidise compute and when to provide it at cost, recognising
that this could form part of an attractive offer to entrepreneurs and researchers
deciding where to base themselves.
4. Establish ‘Al Growth Zones’ (AIGZs) to facilitate the accelerated build
out of Al data centres. As Al infrastructure providers seek access to land and
power, governments who move quickly and mirror the pace of growth and
innovation in the Al data centre market will be best placed to secure
investment. AlGZs could introduce a streamlined planning approvals process
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 9/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
and accelerate the provisioning of clean power. This is a major opportunity to
crowd in private capital to boost our domestic compute portfolio and to build
strategic partnerships with Al developers to work on shared Al and Al-enabled
priorities. Government can also use AlGZs to drive local rejuvenation,
channelling investment into areas with existing energy capacity such as post-
industrial towns and coastal Scotland. Government should quickly nominate at
least one AIGZ and work with local regions to secure buy-in for further AIGZs
that contribute to local needs. Existing government sites could be prioritised as
pilots, including Culham Science Centre, the UK Atomic Energy Authority’s
headquarters, which has access to significant power and land. Alongside this,
government should consider other measures to accelerate buildout of data
centres, such as offering central guidance, creating a bespoke planning use-
class and considering the case for Al data centres to be eligible for relevant
relief schemes that incentivise private sector investment.
5. Mitigate the sustainability and security risks of Al infrastructure, while
positioning the UK to take advantage of opportunities to provide
solutions. This should focus both on secure private-sector compute as well as
collaboration with the UK Intelligence Community. Government should also
explore ways to support novel approaches to compute hardware and, where
appropriate, create partitions in national supercomputers to support new and
innovative hardware. In doing so, government should look to support and
partner with UK companies who can demonstrate performance, sustainability
or security advancements.
6. Agree international compute partnerships with like-minded countries
to increase the types of compute capability available to researchers and
catalyse research collaborations. This should focus on building
arrangements with key allies, as well as expanding collaboration with existing
partners like the EuroHPC Joint Undertaking.
1.2 Unlocking data assets in the public and private
sector
To fuel both frontier Al progress and high-quality Al applications, developers
need access to high-quality data - the lifeblood of modern Al. Data that isn’t in
the training sets of current models and encodes new insights about the world
is particularly valuable. Public data sets, including scientific data sets, may be
extremely important in this context.
We should seek to responsibly unlock both public and private data sets to
enable innovation by UK startups and researchers and to attract international
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 10/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
talent and capital. As part of this, government needs to develop a more
sophisticated understanding of the value of the data it holds, how this value
can be responsibly realised, and how to ensure the preservation of public trust
across all its work to unlock its data assets.
The creation of the National Data Library (NDL) presents an enormous
opportunity. As it develops the NDL, the government should:
7. Rapidly identify at least 5 high-impact public datasets it will seek to
make available to Al researchers and innovators. Prioritisation should
consider the potential economic and social value of the data, as well as public
trust, national security, privacy, ethics, and data protection considerations. We
should explore use of synthetic data generation techniques to construct
privacy-preserving versions of highly sensitive data sets. Government data
sets are a public asset, and careful consideration should be given to their
valuation.
8. Strategically shape what data is collected, rather than just making data
available that already exists. Government should look to collect data in
strategically significant areas, building on existing UK strengths. For example,
the NDL could build on the achievements of the UK Biobank to enhance
research in areas such as disease recognition and the prediction of health
outcomes. The NDL should run open calls to receive proposals from
researchers and industry to propose new data sets.
9. Develop and publish guidelines and best practices for releasing open
government datasets which can be used for Al, including on the
development of effective data structures and data dissemination
methods.
10. Couple compute allocation with access to proprietary data sets as
part of an attractive offer to researchers and start-ups choosing to establish
themselves in the UK and to unlock innovation.
11. Build public sector data collection infrastructure and finance the
creation of new high-value datasets that meet public sector, academia
and startup needs. Government should identify how public data will be
collected and its quality enhanced, including the use of Al-driven data
cleansing tools to curate data sets stored across government, making them
suitable for Al developers and researchers.
12. Actively incentivise and reward researchers and industry to curate
and unlock private datasets. In particular, the NDL should engage with UKRI
to identify how the creation of valuable high-quality data sets that support the
research community could be better acknowledged via the Research
https://Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 11/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
Excellence Framework. Government should also explore how to shape the
market in data set curation, including contributions from the private sector.
13. Establish a copyright-cleared British media asset training data set,
which can be licensed internationally at scale. This could be done through
partnering with bodies that hold valuable cultural data like the National
Archives, Natural History Museum, British Library and the BBC to develop a
commercial proposition for sharing their data to advance Al.
1.3 Training, attracting and retaining the next generation
of Al scientists and founders
If we want the UK to have both world-class Al research and a world-leading Al
application ecosystem, we need to be the natural home for elite talent. In the
next 5 years, the UK must be prepared to train tens of thousands of additional
Al professionals across the technology stack to meet expected demand and
proactively increase its share of the world’s top 1,000 Al researchers.
In the long-term, government needs to create a deeper pool of Al skills and
talent that will build, diffuse and use Al products across the economy. oxinote 3)
Setting a short-term target to train tens of thousands of Al professionals by
2030 will help bridge the estimated gap between supply and demand. /icotnote 4!
This would put the UK in step with countries like France, whose National Al
Commission calculates that the number of French Al graduates would need to
triple over the next decade to match estimated demand. oxtnete 5!
As a priority first step, government should:
14. Accurately assess the size of the skills gap. Current estimates are
imprecise and outdated; the last government-funded Al labour market survey
was in 2020 and the Unit for Future Skills’ jobs and skills dashboard, while a
step in the right direction, still uses supply data from 2019. !'2ctnote 6] The
success of the following recommendations depends on accurately
understanding the skills gap, and so government must make efforts to come to
a concrete and up-to-date number.
Once the size of the skills gap is confirmed, to reach this target over the next 5
years government should:
15. Support Higher Education Institutions to increase the numbers of Al
graduates and teach industry-relevant skills. In 2022, 46,000 students
graduated from an Al-relevant higher education programme in the UK. While
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 12/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
this is the highest in Europe, with Germany (32,000) second, the UK is behind
Finland and others on a per capita basis and there remains unmet demand for
skilled workers. 20t9te 7] Supporting universities to develop new courses co-
designed with industry - such as the successful co-operative education model
of Canada’s University of Waterloo, CDTM at the Technical University of
Munich or France’s CIFRE PhD model - and increasing their teaching and
recruitment capacity would help train the tens of thousands of Al professionals
needed by 2030.
16. Increase the diversity of the talent pool. Only 22% of people working in
Al and data science are women. 22imole 8! Achieving parity would mean
thousands of additional workers. The Al conversion courses have helped to
diversify the Al pipeline, but only at the top end. Government should build on
this investment and promote diversity throughout the education pipeline.
Interventions must be tailored - there is no one-size-fits-all approach.
Hackathons and competitions in schools have proven effective at getting
overlooked groups into cyber and so should be considered for Al. Hoctote 91
17. Expand education pathways into Al. Higher education is the most
common pathway into Al careers and will likely remain so at least until 2030.
footnote 10) Tg meet the demands of the labour market and the changing skills
needs of the future, however, government should encourage and promote
alternative domestic routes into the Al profession - including through further
education and apprenticeships, as well as employer and self-led upskilling.
18. Launch a flagship undergraduate and masters Al scholarship
programme on the scale of Rhodes, Marshall, or Fulbright for students to
study in the UK. Open to a diverse initial cohort of 100 scholars from the UK
and abroad, the programme would combine financial support, cohort building,
industry co-investment, and placements in government or private sector Al
organisations. Potential scholars must show exceptional promise, but
recognising the broad range of talents needed for success in Al, this could be
in a variety of fields, such as strong performance in a leading STEM
competition (e.g. the International Mathematical or Informatics Olympiads).
19. Ensure its lifelong skills programme is ready for AI. Al will continue to
change the labour market, though exactly how and when is unclear. What is
certain is while some jobs will be replaced by Al, many will be augmented -
and an unknown number will be created. Government should ensure there are
sufficient opportunities for workers to reskill, both into Al and Al-enabled jobs
and more widely. The UK should also learn and adopt best practice from other
countries who are preparing their skills systems for the long-term impacts of
Al. Singapore, for example, developed a national Al skills online platform with
multiple training offers. South Korea is integrating Al, data and digital literacy
throughout its education pipelines through an Al curriculum and a variety of
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 13/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
training and education programmes. Skills England and the independent
Curriculum and Assessment Review present an opportunity to consider the
merit of such approaches in our system.
Alongside these longer-term investments, the government's priority should be
to rapidly increase the number of top Al research talents who work in the UK.
These leading Al scientists and engineers are few in number and highly prized
globally. The countries that attract them will play an outsized role in the future
of Al. It is not surprising that the US, which is the number 1 destination for top
talent, has also been at the forefront of recent Al breakthroughs.
International competition for top talent is fierce. The UK must go further than
existing measures and take a more proactive approach at every stage of the
talent pipeline. Though ambitious, these efforts could yield large benefits for
the UK if one individual founds the next DeepMind or OpenAl.
Within the next year, government should:
20. Establish an internal headhunting capability on a par with top Al firms
to bring a small number of elite individuals to the UK. Government should
build on the success of the Al Safety Institute in attracting top talent. This may
include recruiting more people into AISI, UK Sovereign Al or other public Al
labs, as well as UK-based companies. Officials will need flexibility to develop
specific offers and provide wraparound support to talent targets - recognising
that to truly ‘headhunt’ talent the programme will need to be backed by
appropriate funding.
21. Explore how the existing immigration system can be used to attract
graduates from universities producing some of the world’s top Al talent.
Graduates from some leading Al institutions, such as the Indian Institutes of
Technology and (since 2020) Carnegie Mellon University in the US, are not
currently included in the High Potential Individual visa eligibility list.
Government should take steps to develop new pathways, and strengthen
existing ones, to support these graduates. It should also explore how best to
address wider barriers like the cost and complexity of visas which create
obstacles for startups and deter overseas talent from re-locating to the UK.
[footnote 11]
22. Expand the Turing Al Fellowship offer. 15 new Turing Al Pioneer
Fellowships should be created for specialists in other sectors who wish to
develop deep technical skills in Al. At the same time, funding for 25 more
Turing Al Acceleration and Al World-Leading fellowships should be committed
to maintain the current cohort size over the next 3 years, as existing fellows
graduate from the programme.
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 14/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
1.4 Enabling safe and trusted Al development and
adoption through regulation, safety and assurance
The UK’s current pro-innovation approach to regulation is a source of strength
relative to other more regulated jurisdictions and we should be careful to
preserve this.
Well-designed and implemented regulation, alongside effective assurance
tools, can fuel fast, wide and safe development and adoption of Al. Regulators
themselves have an important role in supporting innovation as part of their
Growth Duty. Government must protect UK citizens from the most significant
risks presented by Al and foster public trust in the technology, particularly
considering the interests of marginalised groups. That said, we must do this
without blocking the path towards Al's transformative potential.
Ineffective regulation could hold back adoption in crucial sectors like the
medical sector, but regulation, safety and assurance have the power to drive
innovation and economic growth too, as shown by the success of regulatory
sandboxes in supporting fintech startups and the development of the UK’s
cyber security industry.22%9le 12] Clear rules provide clarity to businesses so
they have the confidence to invest and bring new products and services to
market.
The government should:
23. Continue to support and grow the Al Safety Institute (AISI) to
maintain and expand its research on model evaluations, foundational
safety and societal resilience research. AISI is the first safety institute to
have conducted pre-deployment evaluations of frontier models and its success
is a significant and growing source of international influence for the UK.
Continued investment is needed to ensure AISI retains its position as a world-
leader and remains attractive to top Al safety researchers. It is also essential
to act quickly to provide clarity on how frontier models will be regulated. A top
priority of any such regulation should be preserving the capability, trust and
collaboration that the AISI has built up since its creation.
24. Reform the UK text and data mining regime so that it is at least as
competitive as the EU. The current uncertainty around intellectual property
(IP) is hindering innovation and undermining our broader ambitions for Al, as
well as the growth of our creative industries. This has gone on too long and
needs to be urgently resolved. The EU has moved forward with an approach
https://Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 15/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
that is designed to support Al innovation while also enabling rights holders to
have control over the use of content they produce. The UK is falling behind.
It is also essential that we act now to ensure sector regulators are fit for the
age of Al. In particular, government should:
25. Commit to funding regulators to scale up their Al capabilities, some
of which need urgent addressing. Government should also ensure all
sponsor departments demonstrate how they are funding this capability within
their budgets through the Spending Review process.
26. Ensure all sponsor departments include a focus on enabling safe Al
innovation in their strategic guidance to regulators. Al will touch every
aspect of the economy and so it is essential that all regulators are prioritising
understanding its impacts in their domains and considering how best to
encourage its safe adoption.
2/. Work with regulators to accelerate Al in priority sectors and
implement pro-innovation initiatives like regulatory sandboxes. These
should be targeted in areas with regulatory challenges but high-growth
potential, such as products which integrate Al into the physical world like
autonomous vehicles, drones and robotics.
28. Require all regulators to publish annually how they have enabled
Innovation and growth driven by Al in their sector. To ensure
accountability, this should include transparent metrics such as timelines to
publish guidance, make licence decisions and report on resources allocated to
Al-focused work. Even with these initiatives, individual regulators may still lack
the incentives to promote innovation at the scale of the government's ambition.
If evidence demonstrates that is the case, government should consider more
radical changes to our regulatory model for Al, for example by empowering a
central body with a mandate and higher risk tolerance to promote innovation
across the economy. Such a body could have expertise and statutory powers
to issue pilot sandbox licences for Al products that override sector regulations,
taking on liability for all related risks. This approach could initially be explored
and piloted for specific Al applications at small scale.
Alongside investing in pro-innovation regulation, the government should:
29. Support the Al assurance ecosystem to increase trust and adoption
by:
e Investing significantly in the development of new assurance tools, including
through an expansion to AISI’s systemic Al safety fast grants programme, to
support emerging safety research and methods.
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 16/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
e Building government-backed high-quality assurance tools that assess
whether Al systems perform as claimed and work as intended.
As part of taking forward the recommendations in this Action Plan, government
should:
30. Consider the broader institutional landscape and the full potential of
the Alan Turing Institute to drive progress at the cutting edge, support
the government’s missions and attract international talent.
2. Change lives by embracing Al
2.1 Al Adoption is core to delivering the government’s
missions
The adoption of high-performing, trustworthy Al at scale will be critical to the
government fulfilling the five missions (https://www.gov.uk/missions). Al should
become core to how we think about delivering services, transforming citizens’
experiences, and improving productivity. As well as strengthening the
foundations - data, skills, talent, IP, and assurance measures set out above -
government should also focus on its role as a major user and customer of Al
and how it uses its powers to catalyse private sector adoption:
Adoption missions
Public sector Public and private sector Private-sector users
Adopt Al Scan->Pilot->Scale 2 : ; ;
approach to deliver step-change Reinforce each other to amplify Remove adoption barriers to
in public-service quality impact across the ecosystem drive growth and productivity
Though we are still early in the development of the Al application layer - and all
Al use should be tailored appropriately to the specific setting or sector in which
it will be deployed. For example, Al use in health and care will raise different
considerations than in advanced manufacturing. Indeed there are already
great examples of Al use-cases driving tangible benefits across the private and
public sectors:
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 17/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
e Using Al assistants to do repetitive tasks better and faster, freeing up to
20% of an employee’s time H2otole 13] For example, it is helping some
teachers cut down the 15+ hours a week they spend on lesson planning and
marking in pilots.
e Drafting structured reports and forms with Al can cut final document
production times by 20-80% in professional services. !2ot"le "4] Trials are
underway exploring how these methods can save time for clinical
practitioners in the NHS.
e Automated threat and anomaly detection is already being responsibly
deployed by police forces across the country and used to clean up social
media.
e Assessment and diagnosis can be improved through the use of Al. For
example, through the £21 million Al Diagnostics fund, Department for Health
and Social Care (DHSC) is supporting the deployment of technologies in
key, high-demand areas such as chest X-Ray and chest CT scans to enable
faster diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer in over half of acute trusts in
England. Assessments can be done better, cheaper, and more quickly
across multiple sectors. We also anticipate that Al will be a useful tool for
assessment in the education sector. For example, the Department for
Education’s generative Al and rules-based marking tool showed 92%
accuracy in a pilot with teachers on year 4 literacy work when drawing from
appropriately coded educational data and content. 2atnote 15)
2.2 Adopt a “Scan > Pilot > Scale” approach in
government
While there are instances ofA l being used well across the public sector, often
they are at small scale and in silos. Scaling these successes is essential, but
will require us to think differently about procurement, especially if this activity is
to support the domestic startup and innovation ecosystem. As the digital centre
of government, DSIT should support public sector partners where needed to
“move fast and learn things’.
Government should generally employ a flexible “Scan > Pilot > Scale”
approach.
Scan
Investing in building a deep and continually updated understanding of Al
capabilities mapped to their highest impact challenges and opportunities.
This will require:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 18/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
31. Appointing an Al lead for each mission to help identify where Al
could be a solution within the mission setting, considering the user
needs from the outset.
32. Across government, technical horizon scanning and market
intelligence capability who understands Al capabilities and use-cases
as they evolve to work closely with the mission leads and maximise
the expertise of both.
33. Two-way partnerships with Al vendors and startups to anticipate
future Al developments and signal public sector demand. This would
involve government meeting product teams to understand upcoming
releases and shape development by sharing their challenges.
Pilot
Rapidly developing prototypes or fast light-touch procurement to spin up
pilots in high-impact areas, robust evaluation and publishing results. This
will require:
34. Consistent use of a framework for how to source Al - whether to
build in-house, buy, or run innovation challenges - that evolves over
time, given data, capability, industry contexts and evaluation of
what’s worked. Where appropriate, the government should support open-
source solutions that can be adopted by other organisations and design
processes with startups and other innovators in mind.
35. Arapid prototyping capability that can be drawn on for key
projects where needed, including technical and delivery resource to
build and test proof of concepts, leveraging in-house Al expertise,
together with specialists in design and user experience.
36. Specific support to hire external Al talent. Creation of a technical
senior civil servant stream, benchmarking of internal Al-related role pay to
at least 75% of private-sector rate and a technical Al recruitment screening
process. |ostnote 16]
37. A data-rich experimentation environment including a streamlined
approach to accessing data sets, access to language models and
necessary infrastructure like compute.
38. A faster, multi-stage gated and scaling Al procurement process
that enables easy and quick access to small-scale funding for pilots
and only layers bureaucratic controls as the investment-size gets
larger. Multi-staged “Competitive Flexible Procedures” should be
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 19/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
encouraged, and startups compensated for the rounds they make it
through. ootnote 17]
Scale
Identifying successful pilots that can be applied in different settings to
support citizens (e.g. to reduce waiting lists or minimise time and cost to
complete paperwork) and rolling them out beyond organisational
boundaries. Scale is essential if Al is to have a meaningful impact on
productivity, effectiveness and citizen experience, as well as maximising
government spending power. Moreover, doing this well and procuring in a
way that benefits innovators is a powerful lever for upending the cliche that
the UK is good at invention, but poor at commercialisation. It will require:
39. Ascaling service for successful pilots with senior support and
central funding resource. The government should support a select
number of proven pilots to scale - with central finance and tools available
to avoid fragmentation across systems and budgets - and achieve up to
national level reach.
40. Mission-focussed national Al tenders to support rapid adoption
across de-centralised systems led by the mission delivery boards. An
example of tendering to enable scale is the NHS’s Al Diagnostic Fund
allocating £21 million to twelve imaging networks, covering 66 NHS trusts
across England, significantly speeding up the roll out of Al diagnostic tools
nationwide. foctncte 18] However, these tenders should be designed to
encourage new entrants, avoiding reliance on commercial frameworks
where possible.
41. Development or procurement of a scalable Al tech stack that
supports the use of specialist narrow and large language models for
tens or hundreds of millions of citizen interactions across the UK.
42. Mandating infrastructure interoperability, code reusability and
open sourcing. The Al infrastructure choice at-scale should be
standardised, tools should be built with reusable modular code
components, and code-base open-sourcing where possible.
2.3 Enable public and private sectors to reinforce each
other
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 20/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
The public and private sectors should play mutually reinforcing roles in Al
adoption. To get the most from working together, government should:
43. Procure smartly from the Al ecosystem as both its largest customer
and as a market shaper. Innovative Al suppliers from the UK and around the
world should be engaged to support demand and encourage investment.
Procurement contract terms should set standards (e.g. quality), requirements,
and best practice (e.g. performance evaluations). “Contemplation” clauses
should be included in contracts to ensure the government remains agile to a
rapidly changing Al ecosystem by mandating that contractors regularly assess
and adopt newer technologies.
44. Use digital government infrastructure to create new opportunities for
innovators. For example, an approach akin to Jeff Bezos’s API mandate at
Amazon could be adopted. This required all teams’ data and functionality to be
exposed through APIs (Application Programme Interfaces). All standard
documentation interactions, like compliance or planning, could be done
through APIs, to which companies could connect their own tools. Similarly,
mandating e-Invoices from government suppliers could automate billing, speed
up payments and reduce fraud.
45. Publish best-practice guidance, results, case-studies and open-
source solutions through a single “Al Knowledge Hub” accessible to
technical and non-technical users across private and public sectors as a single
place to access frameworks and insights.
46. In the next 3 months, the Digital Centre of Government should
identify a series of quick wins to support the adoption of the scan, pilot
scale approach and enable public and private sector to reinforce each
other.
2.4 Address private-sector-user-adoption barriers
Al adoption could grow the UK economy by an additional £400 billion by 2030
through enhancing innovation and productivity in the workplace, footnote 19]
Safe, effective and swift Al adoption has the potential to enhance the
international competitiveness of sectors of UK strength and unlock new growth
opportunities across the whole economy, including for SMEs. To capture the
benefits of Al adoption across the private sector, the government should:
47. Leverage the new Industrial Strategy. The development of a new
Industrial Strategy presents an opportunity to drive collective action to
support Al adoption across the economy. The Industrial Strategy will need
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 21/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
to set out how Al adoption can best be supported in key industries, noting
particular use cases that could boost productivity and present a particular
competitive advantage while also identifying possible regulatory barriers and
specific skills needs that need to be addressed. DSIT and others with Al
expertise within government can play a critical role in combining with those
who have a deep understanding of their sectors to engage business leaders,
identify high-potential use cases, co-design targeted interventions to promote
them and overcome barriers to adopting them.
48. Appoint Al Sector Champions in key industries like the life sciences,
financial services and the creative industries to work with industry and
government and develop Al adoption plans.
49. Drive Al adoption across the whole country. Widespread adoption of Al
can address regional disparities in growth and productivity. To achieve this,
government should leverage local trusted intermediaries and trade bodies to
support business leaders, and also consider opportunities to accelerate Al
adoption by working across supply chains. A particular focus should be put on
supporting SMEs and the specific challenges they face.
3. Secure our future with homegrown Al
By the end of the decade, having national champions at the frontier of Al
capabilities may be a critical pillar of our national and economic security.
Government should use the full powers it has available to ensure this
happens.
Al systems are increasingly matching or surpassing humans across a range of
tasks. Today’s Al systems have many limitations, but industry is investing at a
scale that assumes capabilities will continue to grow rapidly. Frontier models in
2024 are trained with 10,000x more computing power than in 2019, and we
are likely to see a similar rate of growth by 2029. If progress continues at the
rate of the last 5 years, by 2029 we can expect Al to be a dominant factor in
economic performance and national security.
Many of us have become familiar with the remarkable capabilities of large
language models across a broad set of domains. Leading Al companies
continue to push this frontier, and we are also seeing stunning progress in
other modalities, including breakthroughs in video and image generation,
robotics, mathematics, and scientific discovery. To take one example,
DeepMind'’s AlphaFold - which predicts protein structures - is estimated to
have saved the equivalent of 400 million years of researcher time. We can
https://Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 22/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
imagine the impact on science, medicine and the broader economy if we see
this sort of success in other domains.
Given the pace of progress, we will also very soon see agentic systems -
systems that can be given an objective, then reason, plan and act to achieve
it. The chatbots we are all familiar with are just an early glimpse as to what is
possible.
The economic consequences of continued progress in these areas could be
enormous. Just as with previous technological revolutions, the people and
countries who make decisions about how these systems operate and what
values they reflect - including their approach to safety - will have huge
influence over our lives.
If this is to benefit the UK we must be an Al maker, not just an Al taker: we
need companies at the frontier that will be our UK national champions.
We have all the raw ingredients to make this possible. Al research and product
development is a UK strength rooted in world-class engineering talent coming
out of our excellent universities and local Al winners such as DeepMind and
Wayve. Our position between the US and Europe, and convenient time-zone,
make the UK an ideal place for international founders to collaborate.
Section 1 and Section 2 of this Action Plan above are critical to building on
this. Section 1 covered the policy and infrastructure needed for the growth of
the domestic Al sector. Section 2 covered the policies needed for widespread
Al adoption - a necessary condition for a world-leading Al application
ecosystem.
We should assume that most advanced economies will soon be doing much of
the above. If we aspire to be one of the biggest winners from Al and drive
national renewal, we need to go further.
Given the lead the current frontier firms enjoy, we cannot expect the market to
solely underwrite a new challenger, especially in the next 2 to 3 years. But
government holds critical levers for the next stage of Al development.
Generating national champions will require a more activist approach and
something more akin to Japan’s MITI or Singapore’s Economic Development
Board in the 1960s, not the “invisible hand”.
The government must maximise its ambition and ensure the UK has national
champions at the frontier of economically and strategically important
capabilities. This means government needs to:
e Ensure that research and development of frontier Al capabilities takes place
in the UK - both in the current foundation model paradigm and in emerging
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 23/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
spaces such as Al for science, robotics, and “embodied Al”.
e Ensure that the UK maximises both its economic upside from and influence
on these capabilities as they advance.
Achieving this will require bold, concerted and coherent action, using all the
levers of the state to make the UK the best place in the world to build and
scale frontier Al companies. While | don’t want to understate how difficult this
will be, | am confident that with the right focus and backing, the UK can do this.
To this end, the government should:
50. Create a new unit, UK Sovereign Al, with the power to partner with the
private sector to deliver the clear mandate of maximising the UK’s stake
in frontier Al.
Public-private collaboration will be at the heart of this unit. It will support the
private and academic sectors in doing what they do best, with the ability to
collaborate internationally, create joint ventures, as well as invest in, incubate
and spin out Al companies - refining its strategy and approach as the
technology matures.
To achieve this, the unit must develop a clear position on which areas of Al
research are strategically important for the future of the technology and make
concentrated bets in these areas. This could involve supporting entrepreneurs
to create new companies, backing startups to scale or partnering with existing
Al companies that are already at the frontier to maximise the UK’s upside
however the technology develops.
With a clear and powerful mandate the unit will play a critical coordinating role,
able to remove barriers and make deals to maximise the UK’s chance of
growing globally competitive national champions. It will need to be able to
draw on the resources of government to act quickly and decisively. If it is to
succeed, it will require support from other government organisations.
Especially important will be Innovate UK, which should make Al a top priority
and support the unit through the funding it provides to promising start-ups.
Early tolerance for scientific and technical risk can be hugely valuable. For
example, the unit or its public sector partners might join funding rounds or
provide advanced market commitments to credible and ambitious startups in
emerging fields of Al. Al for science is an area with the potential to be
particularly important because of its economic value and security implications;
the UK’s existing talent strengths; and the particularly high value of the state’s
assets in this space.
https://Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 24/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
The use of these non-financial assets, alongside capital and procurement, will
be critical to the unit's offer. UK Sovereign Al should lead the delivery of a
government offer to new and existing frontier Al companies that
includes:
e Direct investment into companies, including promising start-ups as well as
joint ventures with other commercial partners.
e Delivering appropriate sites for compute in the UK, including through Al
Growth Zones, and international partnerships to guarantee compute access
from appropriate allies.
e Packaging and providing responsible access to the most valuable UK-
owned data sets and relevant research.
e Supporting UK-based Al organisations working on national priority projects
to bring in overseas talent and headhunting promising founders or CEOs
(and their teams) by convincing them to relocate to the UK.
e Facilitating deep collaboration with the national security community.
In exchange, UK Sovereign Al should ensure economic upside from, and
influence on, governance of frontier Al for the UK.
Al may well be the most important technology of our time. Now is the moment
to act boldly and with vision so that the UK helps to shape Al’s course and our
citizens’ share in its upside.
Conclusion
The Action Plan | have set out will require the government to both take a long-
term view and take action immediately. It will need to commit to securing the
physical infrastructure and human capital that will underpin all future Al
developments. Government should also have the self-confidence and ambition
to set an example for the rest of the economy. This will require a novel
approach involving close collaboration with industry to ensure the whole of
society can benefit from the opportunities offered by Al.
Business-as-usual is not an option. Instead, government will need to be
prepared to absorb some risk in the context of uncertainty.
This will require a whole of government commitment, with senior and visible
leadership and a relentless focus on driving progress.
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 25/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
This is no small task. Nevertheless, the benefits are likely to be
transformational, not just to support economic growth, but to people’s lives
across the whole of the UK.
1. Assumes compute requirements continue to grow at 4x per year.
2. Assuming trends in hardware performance continue, by 2030 each pound
spent on GPUs will buy 8x more FLOP and require 4x less power, therefore
expanding AIRR by 20x would require much less than a 20x increase in
investment.
3. Jeffrey Ding, ‘Technology and the Rise of Great Powers: How Diffusion
Shapes Economic Competition’, 2010.
4. Based on internal DSIT estimates.
5. French Government, ‘25 Recommendations for Al in France’
(https://www.info.gouv.fr/actualite/25-recommandations-pour-lia-en-france), 2024.
6. lpsos Mori ‘Understanding the UK Al labour market’
(https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/media/60992b39d3bf7f2888d18f84/DCMS
and _lpsos MORI Understanding the Al Labour Market 2020 Full Report.pdf),
2020; Unit for Future Skills, ‘Jobs and skills dashboard
(https://www.gov.uk/government/groups/unit-for-future-skills)’, 2023.
7. Stanford Al Index, ‘Al Index Annual Report’ (https://aiindex.stanford.edu/report/),
2024.
8. The Alan Turing Institute, ‘Report: Where are the women? Mapping the
Gender Job Gap in Al’ (https://www.turing.ac.uk/news/publications/report-where-
are-women-mapping-gender-job-gap-ai), 2021 (accessed 15 October 2024)
9. Centre for Security and Emerging Technology, ‘U.S. High School
Cybersecurity Competitions’ (https://cset.georgetown.edu/publication/u-s-high-
school-cybersecurity-competitions/), 2022 (accessed 15 October 2024)
10. Unit for Future Skills, ‘Jobs and skills dashboard
(https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/groups/unit-for-future-skills)’, 2023 (accessed 15
October 2024)
11. Startup Coalition, ‘Startup Manifesto 2024’
(https://drive.google.com/file/d/17ydUmqoW1QKWmQek0Q6Cf4T 5YU27V4d/view),
2024.
12. NHS England, ‘Al Regulation’ (https://transform.england.nhs.uk/ai-lab/ai-lab-
programmes/regulating-the-ai-ecosystem/), 2022.
Bank for International Settlements, ‘Regulatory sandboxes and fintech
funding: evidence from the UK’ (https://www.bis.org/publ/work901.htm), 2022
(revised 2023).
DSIT, ‘Cyber security sectoral analysis 2024’
https:/Avww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 26/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/cyber-security-sectoral-analysis-
2024/cyber-security-sectoral-analysis-2024), 2024.
13. Business leader interviews, August 2024
14. Business leader interviews, August 2024
15. Department for Education, ‘Use Cases for Generative Al in Education -
Building a proof of concept for Generative Al feedback and resource
generation in education contexts: Technical report’
(https://;www.gov.uk/government/news/our-first-steps-for-change), 2024 (accessed
03 December 2024)
16. Tony Blair Institute, “Governing in the Age of Al: A New Model to Transform
the State’ (https://institute.global/insights/politics-and-governance/governing-in-the-
age-of-ai-a-new-model-to-transform-the-state), 2024 (accessed 15 October
2024)
17. Cabinet Office, ‘Guidance: Competitive Tendering Procedures’
(https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/procurement-act-2023-guidance-
documents-define-phase/competitive-tendering-procedures-
html#:~:text=The%20competitive%20flexible%20procedure%20rethpeliarc%2e0s0,w
n%20competitive%20tendering%20procedure), 2024 (accessed 15 October
2024)
18. NHS England, ‘Al Diagnostic Fund’ (https://transform.england.nhs.uk/ai-lab/ai-
lab-programmes/ai-in-imaging/ai-diagnostic-fund/), 2024 (accessed 15 October
2024)
19. Public First, ‘Google’s Impact in the UK 2023’
(https://Awww.publicfirst.co.uk/googles-impact-in-the-uk-2023.html), 2024 (accessed
15 October 2024)
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 27/28
5/19/26, 6:25 PM Al Opportunities Action Plan - GOV.UK
OGL
All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright
https:/Awww.gov.uk/government/publications/ai-opportunities-action-plan/ai-opportunities-action-plan 28/28